This will result in the rapid processing of applications since materials used to make the passports are all imported and expensive, Government officials have said. However, the Government is not seeking to make profit from the passports and will ensure they remain accessible in price, since the Passport Office is a public service, not a profit-making business. Even on a switch to full cost recovery, not all costs are in foreign currency and dependent on the exchange rate since there are significant costs in local currency. Costs like salaries for processing and printing staff are paid in local currency. Only the actual special security paper, covers and fraud-resistant inks are imported. It could not be established yesterday what each of these costs actually were and how they would be fed into a formula seeking cost recovery, as some countries now use. But both Registrar-General Clemence Masango and Home Affairs and Cultural Heritage Minister Kazembe Kazembe said yesterday that only 2 000 passports a day were now being produced. Yet if adequate foreign currency could be made available or bought on the interbank market, the total could be more than doubled to 4 600, allowing the RGs Office to meet current demand and attack the backlog. Currently, an ordinary passport costs $53 while an emergency passport costs $253. These charges were set in 2010 and Minister Kazembe said passports were basically being produced at “zero cost” to applicants. Zimbabwe’s passports are the cheapest in the region. Masango said the costing exercise for the production of a passport was done in 2010 when Zimbabwe was fully dollarised. He said the $53 is what Cabinet approved and could be charged as the minimum cost of the passport, but not necessarily the exact cost of production. “Government is not in the business of 100 % cost recovery or profit-making; there is a social responsibility element that goes into the fees for public services, but $53 is what was approved.” Kazembe said it would be prudent to increase the passport charge to enable the full production capacity of passports. “This was at the time when it was 1:1 with the US dollar. Consumables are imported and they need foreign currency which is dependent on the exchange rate,” he said.  --Herald--