Their drivers, Charles Leclerc and Sebastian Vettel collided, taking both out of the race and leaving the team with a rather large problem on their hands. "Silly" was the word team boss, Mattia Binotto, used to describe the incident. In his cool, detached way, he deflected a series of opportunities to lay the blame, and said he would reconvene with Vettel and Leclerc at the factory in Maranello this week to analyse what happened, come to some form of judgement and decide on next steps. The question now for Binotto is what he does next and how he manages what has become the most combustible driver pairing in F1, not so much for the one remaining race this year, but to prevent the internal competition from derailing their 2020 campaign. The collision occurred on lap 66 of a frenetic race, with five to go, as the two Ferrari drivers found themselves at the back of a queue of cars being held up by Lewis Hamilton's Mercedes, running second to Red Bull's Max Verstappen on much older tyres than those behind. Ahead of them, and behind Hamilton, was Red Bull's Alexander Albon, who was trying to pass the Mercedes while also holding back Vettel, who in turn had Leclerc behind him. Leclerc saw an opportunity and dived for the inside of Vettel into Turn One. It was a daring move, aggressive certainly, but absolutely clean. But not one that Vettel was likely to take lying down. The German had use of the DRS overtaking aid on the run towards Turn Four, and Leclerc moved to the inside to defend his position, leaving just enough room for Vettel; but not an inch more on the outside. Approaching the corner, Vettel then moved across on his team-mate, his left rear tyre touching Leclerc's front right. Although light, the contact broke Leclerc's suspension and ripped the tyre off the rim, and also gave Vettel a right-rear puncture. Both cars retired from the race, prompting the final safety car that triggered a bonkers last two laps, in which Mercedes did what technical director James Allison described as "plain dumb" in pitting Hamilton for fresh tyres, the world champion collided with Albon, costing the Anglo-Thai a first podium, and Toro Rosso's Pierre Gasly finished a wholly unexpected second. --BBC--