Kenya Airports Authority (KAA), which manages the country's airports, said in a statement that its investigation had not found anyone registered under the name Paul Manyasi working at the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport (JKIA), as Sky News reported. "The identity of the stowaway is an open and active investigation and any information received will be investigated to ensure a factual conclusion," a KAA statement said. An official at KAA, who wanted to remain anonymous, told the BBC that every employee at the airport goes through security vetting and was issued with a pass, and that all employees at the agency and those working for private companies at the airport had been accounted for. Colnet, the cleaning company which Manyasi was said to have worked for, also said it had no record of anyone by that name. "There are records of the passes issued and all Colnet employees are accounted for without failure at the end of every shift and we can confirm without a doubt that we don't have, and have never had Paul Manyasi as an employee," it said. Sky News had reported, quoting a woman who said he was Manyasi's colleague and girlfriend that a manager had informed workers that a person was missing after a shift in July. "Paul was a nice guy," the girlfriend, who chose to remain anonymous, told Sky News. "He was just a jovial person. I just liked him the way he was. We had agreed one day maybe we could make a family." The stowaway would have endured sub-zero temperatures in the landing gear compartment of the Kenya Airways flight, giving him no chance of survival. A resident of the area in the United Kingdom (UK) capital where the body fell told the BBC: "One of the reasons his body was so intact was because his body was an ice block." UK police believe he was already dead when he dropped out of the plane. A bag, water and some food were found when it landed. The Sky News journalist showed the items found to both Manyasi's girlfriend and his parents, who said they belonged to him. --BBC--