While so clearly not the only Proteas batsman under-delivering in the most time-honoured format of them all, Bavuma's shaky personal series - 96 runs at 16.00, from six innings - only dragged down further his unremarkable career figures now of 1 812 runs at 31.24 from 39 Test matches.   

"I can understand all the criticism and the flak that is coming my way," he added philosophically at a media briefing there. "As a batter your currency is runs." They are perplexingly ordinary, frustrating statistics for a 29-year-old player (so slightly past the point now of "promising") who is technically very organised and has often before demonstrated the heart of a lion in difficult circumstances. But if clouds do have silver linings, Bavuma is increasingly - and flying in the face of the initial odds in his case - showing a penchant for dramatically improving his white-ball game, and more especially in the Twenty20 environment. While it also remains a mystery that he only sports a paltry two one-day international caps - considering his 161 runs from them at 80.50 and no further recognition since October 2017 - he is at least firming up at a rate of knots his credentials as an effervescent T20 factor at all levels. Indeed, he is timing his run of form in that landscape extremely well considering that the T20 World Cup in Australia - the Proteas' next chance to break their ICC major tournament hoodoo - is less than a year away. Bavuma was first recognised for the country in T20 internationals at the start of the Indian tour earlier this season, when their Subcontinent trek got off well enough: a 1-1 share of the spoils in the intended three-match series, with one washout. Batting at "first drop" each time, the diminutive Lions player weighed in with scores of 49 (43 balls) in Mohali and then an unbeaten 27 (23 deliveries) in Bengaluru. But he has transferred that energy into the Mzansi Super League as well, the Jozi Stars' skipper providing a ray of light amidst the defending champions' collective early angst (nought-from-four record) in the tournament - they will do extremely well just to crack the playoffs from here. Bavuma, looking increasingly assured again in the key number three role, is in a neck-and-neck race with team-mate and opener Reeza Hendricks at the top of the overall runs chart in the MSL.       
--News24--