The accusation comes from United Nations experts. 

A report to the United Nations (UN) Security Council Libya sanctions committee, seen by Reuters on Monday, also accused Sudan and the head of Sudan’s Rapid Support Forces (RSF), Mohamed Hamdan Dagalo, known by his nickname Hemeti, of violating UN sanctions by deploying 1 000 Sudanese troops to Libya. The UN missions of Jordan, Turkey and Sudan did not immediately respond to a Reuters request for comment on the accusations in the confidential report, which is due to be made public next month. “The transfers (of military material) to Libya were repeated and sometimes blatant with scant regard being paid to compliance with the sanctions measures,” the independent UN experts wrote. The UAE Ambassador to the UN, Lana Nusseibeh, said she could not comment on the findings of the report as she has not seen it, but said that the UAE was “firmly committed to complying with its obligations under the Libya sanctions regime and all relevant Security Council resolutions.” The UN Security Council issued a statement in July urging other countries not to intervene or exacerbate the conflict in Libya, but any action over the sanctions violations reported by the UN experts is unlikely. Libya descended into chaos after a NATO-backed uprising that overthrew leader, Muammar Gaddafi, in 2011. Thousands of people have been killed in sporadic fighting since 2014 between factions in the east and west. The violence has allowed militants and migrant smugglers to flourish, hit Libya’s oil industry and divided the country’s key institutions. Seven months ago commander Khalifa Haftar’s Libyan National Army (LNA) launched an offensive against the internationally recognized Government of National Accord (GNA) and its forces in Tripoli. But the war has reached an impasse. “The frontline of the fighting has remained fluid but constrained within narrow bounds since April. Neither side has the military capability to effectively decide the outcome to their advantage,” the UN experts wrote in their report. The UN experts accuse Jordan and the United Arab Emirates of supplying military material to Haftar’s forces, which they said then prompted Libya’s Government of National Accord to ask Turkey for help. “Both parties to the conflict received weapons, military equipment, technical support and non-Libyan fighters in non-compliance with the sanctions measures related to arms,” the experts wrote. “Jordan, Turkey and the UAE routinely and sometimes blatantly supplied weapons with little effort to disguise the source,” they said. “The panel also identified the presence of Chadian and Sudanese armed groups in support of forces affiliated to the GNA and LNA.” The report accuses Sudan and Hemeti of deploying 1 000 Sudanese troops to Libya in July to guard critical national infrastructure so Haftar’s forces could focus on their offensive on Tripoli. Libya has been one of the main departure points for migrants trying to reach Europe and has an estimated migrant population of 640 000. Boatloads of migrants leave frequently from Libya’s north-western coast, though the number attempting the crossing has dropped sharply since mid-2017. More than 50 people were killed and 130 more injured when a July air strike hit a migrant detention centre in Tripoli. The UN experts found that it was “highly probable” that the attack was conducted by a modern attack aircraft using precision-guided munitions “owned and operated by a member state acting in direct support” of Haftar. “The panel reserves identification of this member state until further physical evidence or imagery emerges to increase attribution confidence levels and continues to investigate the circumstances of the air strikes,” the report said. --Reuters--