This follows after Brescia forward, Mario Balotelli, was allegedly insulted with monkey noises during a Serie A match against Hellas Verona. Speaking during a news conference in Rome, Gravina told reporters the federation will bring new tools to identify racist supporters during Serie A matches. "There will be no escape. We will not give up until there is no end to this disgrace", Gravina said. Verona have been handed a one-match partial stadium closure over the racist abuse suffered by Balotelli on Sunday while the club themselves have banned one of their leading ultras for more than 10 years. Balotelli kicked the ball into the crowd and threatened to walk off the pitch early in the second half of Verona's 2-1 league win because he said some fans were making monkey noises. The referee stopped play for around five minutes while announcements were made to the crowd. The 29-year-old, who was born in Sicily to Ghanaian parents and given up for adoption when he was three, has faced racist abuse throughout his career in Italy. Serie A's disciplinary tribunal on Tuesday ordered Verona to close the part of the stadium where the abuse was heard for their next home game. It said in its report that Balotelli was the target of racially discriminatory chanting which was "clearly perceptible" to both the player and the match delegate. Both the home club and Verona's mayor had denied the abuse had taken place. Meanwhile, Verona banned ultra Luca Castellini from its matches until June 2030 for "considerations and expressions, utterly contrary to the ethical principles and values of this club." That appeared to refer to an incendiary radio interview on Monday when Castellini said that Verona fans were merely being "irreverent", that Balotelli was "clowning around" and that the player could never be considered completely Italian. "Mario Balotelli, as an Italian, has proven to have quality and sensitivity, he is more Italian than the other", Gravina added referring to Castellini. Italian authorities have long been criticised by anti-racism campaigners for not doing enough to tackle the problem and last month Cagliari escaped sanctions after Inter Milan forward Romelu Lukaku allegedly suffered racist abuse from their fans. --Reuters--