It comes after an African football chief said it "reflected badly on African football". England's 3-0 victory on Sunday was marred by Cameroon's reaction to two video assistant referee decisions and poor challenges on England's players. A Fifa spokesperson told BBC Sport: "further updates will be provided in due course". Earlier on Monday, Isha Johansen, chair of the Confederation of African Football's women's football committee, said she wanted an investigation to be opened. Johansen, who is also the president of the Sierra Leone Football Association, told BBC Sport it was an "embarrassing situation". In a statement, she said: "Whilst remaining proud of our African teams that participated in the Fifa Women's World Cup, the match between England and Cameroon reflected badly, not only on African women's football but African football on the whole. "It is an issue which will be addressed and dealt with at the appropriate levels of governance." There was an on-pitch protest by Cameroon's players after England's second goal, scored by Ellen White, was awarded by VAR. Cameroon were also visibly upset when, with the score at 2-0, Ajara Nchout's goal was ruled out for offside by VAR. They were fortunate to finish the game with 11 players on the pitch after Yvonne Leuko was booked for an apparent elbow on England winger Nikita Parris, Augustine Ejangue spat on Toni Duggan and Alexandra Takounda was shown a yellow card for a late challenge on Captain Steph Houghton in stoppage time. Johansen told BBC Sport: "Clearly when something happens like what happened, the disappointment that we saw on the pitch, we as Africans felt for Cameroon as a family, as one. We take the collective blame, but at the same time, without sounding like we are condoning what happened, I think it's all about now actually understanding why it happened. "These are the issues that I think CAF has got to address and will address, clearly so we can avoid the same mistakes happening." Speaking after the match, England boss Phil Neville said he was "ashamed" by Cameroon's behaviour, adding it "didn't feel like football". But Cameroon coach, Alain Djeumfa, blamed the referee in his post-match news conference, saying the match was a “miscarriage of justice”. --BBC--