Retail sales increased by 4.4 % to $1.42 billion, boosted by a strong performance from the apparel and homeware segments. The share price responded positively, rising to $13.6 a share, up from Thursday’s closing price of 12.14. The share closed the day at $13.50. Chief executive Mark Blair said the group was able to deliver solid earnings growth in a very tough retail year. Total revenue increased by 5.8 % other income was up by 24.7 % to $102 million, mainly from financial services and cellular. Headline earnings per share (Heps) increased by 6.2 % to 1168.6 cents a share. The group declared a 6.2 % increase in dividends to 736.20c a share. Looking ahead, Blair said the retail environment was likely to remain under pressure in the short term as flat real wage growth and low levels of disposable income continue to challenge the consumers’ ability to spend. “The national elections delivered a positive outcome which we hope will lead to reformed economic policies that will encourage business growth and job creation,” he said. The group expects a very tough first half of the new financial year, but expects a better trading performance in the second half. “Increased focus is being applied to our key differentiators to ensure that we continue to gain market share and deliver above market related returns for our shareholders,” Blair added. Blair, who took over the reins in January, made key appointments, including newly formed roles of chief operating officer Arn de Haas and chief retail officer Nicci Lyne to strengthen the team. He said the new management team had identified potential opportunities for growth across the business and prioritised key areas of focus which will form part of the process of updating the group strategy. The group opened 82 new stores and expanded 11 during the period, closed 17 stores and reduced the size of 30 stores. This took the total number of corporate-owned stores to 1323. It expects to open 70 new stores in the 2020 financial year. --IOL--