The weekend attacks have heaped pressure on Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed, already facing waves of ethnic violence which have displaced over two million people, as he pushes forward with democratic and economic reforms. An ethno-nationalist party in Amhara, one of several political groupings gaining ground as political space opens up, said more than 56 of its members and supporters had been arrested. “In Addis Ababa alone, 56 of our members and sympathisers have been arrested while dozens other NaMA (National Amhara Movement) sympathisers and members in Oromia have also been arrested,” said party spokesperson Christian Tadele. “The campaign of arrests against NaMa members and sympathisers isn’t just directed against a party, but is also an identity-based attack,” Christian told AFP. The National Amhara Movement was formed around a year ago as a hard-line ethno-nationalist challenger to the Amhara Democratic Party (ADP), one of the four alliance members in the national ruling party, the EPRDF. “It is pressing territorial claims on neighbouring Tigray region and asserting that it would stop the ‘persecution’ of Amharas living outside Amhara state,” the International Crisis Group (ICG) said of the party. The history of Amhara, which has provided Ethiopia with its national language, is a source of pride for many who belong to the country’s second largest ethnic group. Some there resent the fact the previous federal government was dominated by Tigrayans who make up about 6% of the population, and now the Prime Minister is an Oromo. Border disputes simmer with neighbouring Oromia and Tigray. The security chief, Asaminew Tsige, who is accused of orchestrating the two attacks at the weekend, was seen as being appointed to his post in the ADP to appeal to the more hard-line residents of the region. In 2018 he was released from almost a decade in prison over a 2009 coup plot. He espoused similar views to the NaMa, observers say, and was likely facing dismissal over his fiery rhetoric and efforts to form militia. Asaminew, who was shot dead on Monday while on the run, is also believed to have co-ordinated the assassination of Army Chief Seare Mekonnen who was shot dead by his bodyguard on Saturday night. Meanwhile, details emerged Thursday of a bloody attack in neighbouring Benishangul Gumuz state at the hands of what local officials believe are men trained by Asaminew. Abera Bayeta, head of Benishangul Gumuz regional state peace and security bureau, told AFP that around 100 heavily-armed men had attacked a village at dawn on Monday, “killing more than 50 civilians most of them women and children.” AFP could not independently verify his claim. --AfricaNews--