The theme for the summit is, "Eliminating Viral Hepatitis in Africa; Implementing the Viral Hepatitis Strategy". The event, which has brought together participants from over 25, countries will provide an opportunity for countries to develop and work towards implementing action plans, sharing best practices and lessons learnt from each other in the fight against Viral Hepatitis. In Africa, dying of viral hepatitis is becoming a bigger threat than dying of AIDS, Malaria or Tuberculosis. It is estimated that every year, 200 000 people die from the complications of viral hepatitis B and C mostly liver cancer in Africa. This is against a background that, 60 million people in this region were living with chronic hepatitis B infection as early as the year 2015, of which, 4.8 million are children under five years old. In addition, an estimated 10 million people are infected with hepatitis C, almost certainly due to unsafe injection practices. In Uganda, according to the Uganda Population-based HIV Impact Assessment survey, (UPHIA, 2016), it is estimated that the prevalence of Viral Hepatitis B is at 4.1% in the population aged 15-64 years. The disease prevalence, however, varies from region to region with the highest prevalence in the North at 4.6% and the lowest in Southwest at 0.8%. While the actual prevalence of Viral Hepatitis C in Uganda is unknown, the data from the National Blood Bank indicates that the prevalence of Hepatitis C among blood donors in Uganda is approximately 1.5%. To mitigate Hepatitis B prevalence, Uganda has embarked on producing the first line drugs recommended for treating Hepatitis B. This makes it one of the first countries in Africa to produce the medicines. This is being done by Cipla Quality Chemical Industries Ltd, a World Health Organisation (WHO)-approved pharmaceutical manufacturer. The opening of the summit was presided over by the Vice President of Uganda Edward Ssekandi, who represented the President of Uganda and shared his remarks. In his remarks, the President informed the delegates that advocacy for vaccination against Viral hepatitis is at the forefront of his work. “I implored the Ministry of Health to immunize all adolescents and adults in the country and get rid of Hepatitis B and vaccination started in July 2015.” He also added, “I have personally participated in mobilizing the masses to get vaccinated. However, it’s important to sensitize people on the modes of transmission during such international events.” The Minister of Health, Dr Jane Ruth Aceng, informed the delegates that the Government of Uganda adopted the World Health Assembly (WHA) resolutions of 2010 and 2014 on viral hepatitis that recognize the disease as a public health problem. The WHO Country Representative in Uganda, Dr Yonas Tegegn Woldemariam said that the WHO Regional Office for Africa established the Framework for Action for the Prevention, Care and Treatment of Viral Hepatitis in the African Region (2016–2020). “This was designed to guide the Member States on the implementation of the Global Health Sector Strategy on Viral Hepatitis which calls for the elimination of hepatitis by 2030,” he said. --WHO--