A few blocks down the road, the rifle and shield-brandishing forces hop off their vehicles and meander through lines of hanging laundry, before swooping in on a cluster of apartment buildings suspected to be crime hotspots. South Africa in July deployed some 1300 soldiers to shore up the police forces which have been battling deadly gang violence ravaging the area. Situated on the south-eastern outskirts of the touristic city of Cape Town, the Cape Flats area comprises multiple townships where blacks and people of mixed race were condemned to live by the oppressive apartheid regime. It has become one of the most dangerous places in South Africa, plagued by gangsterism and under-resourced policing. But a month after their deployment, the troops appear to have brought little relief for the crime-weary and poverty-stricken community. "Everybody was elated when they heard the news that the army was going to come in because the situation was so dire, that anything to improve the situation would have helped," said Kader Jacobs, who heads a community policing forum in Manenberg Township. People had expected a roll-out of large scale lockdowns with specific targeting of well-known criminal hotspots and gang leaders but "there's been none of this. The people aren't seeing any major changes or improvements in the area," said the frustrated community leader. Police statistics say murders in the Western Cape Province rose 6.3% to nearly 4 000 in the year up to April 2019. A new report on urban safety released by the South African Cities Network this year, showed Cape Town recorded the highest murder rates in the country at 69 people killed per 100 000,  double the national average of rate recorded last year. "They send in the army but the army can't do anything," said 50-year-old Sally-Anne Jacobs who lost both her son and 19-year-old cousin to gang violence over the past four years. "The army is here but I don't know how far they can go to minimise the killings on the Cape Flats," she said. --TheEastAfrican--