Trump stunned financial markets on Thursday by saying he plans to levy the additional duties from September 1, marking an abrupt end to a truce in a year-long trade war that has slowed global growth and disrupted supply chains. Beijing would not give an inch under pressure from Washington, Chinese Foreign Ministry Spokesperson, Hua Chunying, said. "If America does pass these tariffs then China will have to take the necessary countermeasures to protect the country's core and fundamental interests," Hua told a news briefing in Beijing. "We won't accept any maximum pressure, intimidation or blackmail. On the major issues of principle we won't give an inch," she said, adding that China hoped the US would “give up its illusions" and return to negotiations based on mutual respect and equality. Trump also threatened to further raise tariffs if Chinese President Xi Jinping fails to move more quickly to strike a trade deal. The newly threatened duties, which Trump announced in a series of tweets after his top trade negotiators briefed him on a lack of progress in talks in Shanghai this week, would extend tariffs to nearly all Chinese goods that the US imports. The President later said if trade discussions failed to progress he could raise tariffs further - even beyond the 25 % levy he has already imposed on $250 billion of imports from China. Senior Chinese diplomat Wang Yi told reporters on the side-lines of an Association of Southeast Nations event in Thailand that additional tariffs were "definitely not a constructive way to resolve economic and trade frictions". US Secretary of State, Mike Pompeo, who was also in Bangkok, decried "decades of bad behaviour" by China on trade and said Trump, had the determination to fix it. The news hit financial markets hard. On Friday, Asian and European stocks took battering and safe-haven assets such as the yen, gold and government bonds jumped as investors rushed for cover. Retail associations in the US predicted a spike in consumer prices, hitting consumer stocks on Thursday on Wall Street, where Target Corp tumbled 4.2%, Macy's Inc fell 6% and Nordstrom Inc was down 6.2%.Asked about the impact on financial markets, Trump told reporters: "I'm not concerned about that at all." Moody's said the new tariffs would weigh on the global economy at a time when growth is already slowing in the US, China and the euro zone. The tariffs may also force the Federal Reserve to again cut interest rates to protect the US economy from trade-policy risks, experts said. --Reuters--