The new protest came as Beijing sent further ominous signals that the 10 weeks of unrest must end, with state-run media showing videos of security forces gathering across the border. The crisis, which has seen millions of people take to Hong Kong's streets, was already the biggest challenge to Chinese rule of the semi-autonomous city since its 1997 handover from Britain. But the two days of protests at the airport, one of the busiest in the world, raised the stakes yet again. All check-ins were cancelled on Tuesday afternoon after thousands of protesters wearing their signature black T-shirts made barricades using luggage trolleys to prevent passengers from passing through security gates. Scuffles broke out between protesters and travellers who pleaded to be allowed past. And late in the evening a small group of riot police briefly used pepper spray to beat back protesters outside the airport as the officers tried to escort a man who was being taken away in an ambulance. The injured man had earlier been surrounded for more than two hours inside the airport by protesters who were convinced he was an undercover police officer. During clashes on Sunday, officers disguised themselves as protesters to make arrests, a move which has since sent paranoia soaring about potential infiltrators. Anger among protesters over what they said were violent tactics deployed by police trying to quell weekend rallies prompted thousands to descend on the airport on Monday. Airport authorities in response cancelled all flights on Monday afternoon. On Tuesday morning, the city's leader, Carrie Lam, gave an at-times emotional press conference in which she warned of dangerous consequences if escalating violence was not curbed. The protests began in opposition to a bill that would have allowed extraditions to the mainland, but quickly evolved into a broader battle to reverse a slide of rights and freedoms in the southern Chinese city. Authorities in Beijing on Monday slammed violent protesters who threw petrol bombs at police officers, linking them to "terrorism". On Tuesday state media upped the ante, calling protesters "mobsters", warning they must never be appeased and raising the spectre of mainland security forces intervening. Meanwhile, videos promoted by state media showed Chinese military and armoured vehicles appearing to gather in the southern city of Shenzhen, which borders Hong Kong. The UN's rights chief on Tuesday voiced concern over police force used against protesters, and called for an impartial probe. A senior US administration official on Monday urged "all sides" to avoid violence.  --AFP--