Mosimane was in charge for just two years before he was shown the door by SAFA after a couple of poor results for the national team. He has since gone on to grow Sundowns into a powerhouse of African football, famously winning the CAF Champions League in 2016. "I've done Bafana, I've had my share. I did five years and I've benefited a lot at SAFA. SAFA really helped me a lot to be where I am," as quoted by KickOff website. "I mean I've been on the bench against Portugal, Germany, Spain. I've seen all these players, from (Cristiano) Ronaldo, to (Andres) Iniesta, to (Luka) Modric. I mean what an experience I had and to see all these teams play with different formations and tactics. 

SAFA took me to Germany for about two months to learn to be a coach and that is the experience I got from SAFA and I'm humbled. "What was not nice is the way it happened when they fired me, it was not nice. I don't believe a coach who is there for two years and loses two games should be fired. "And it was sad to be fired by a taxi owner (then SAFA Technical Committee Chairperson, Fanyana Sibanyoni), it was sad to be fired by a priest (then SAFA Chief Executive Officer, Robin Petersen) and it was sad to be fired by a traditional chief [then SAFA Vice President Chief, Mwelo Nonkonyana). So, do I want to face that again? My hands, my fate is in those people's hands? Really it's not good for football. "I work hard and put a lot of energy in football and I have my careers in the hands of those people? I even begged them when they fired me, I said 'don't fire me, I've got a lot to offer, I know what I'm doing'. "Those people are responding to hire and fire. Do they understand? They don't understand. I mean what do they do Monday to Friday, to decide on a football matter? They don't have the ability. "It's unbelievable. So do I want to be in that situation again? That situation is still the same. I don't want to be there, I'm happy at Sundowns. "I've got my Champions League, which is my Cup of Nations. I've got the Club World Cup, which is my World Cup. Unbelievable experience, so I'm happy at Sundowns. I'm loved at Sundowns, the supporters support me. I mean, once bitten twice shy."

--News24--