“This is because of the security concerns, you never know what can happen,” Football Association of Zambia (FAZ) secretary general Adrian Kashala, told AFP. “We want to be sure of the security of the visiting team”. Five people have been killed in a surge of xenophobic violence in South Africa, police said on Tuesday, as President Cyril Ramaphosa vowed to clamp down and the African Union, Nigeria and Zambia condemned the attacks. Hordes of people, some armed with axes and machetes, gathered in Johannesburg’s central business district for a third day of unrest directed against foreigners, hours after mobs burned and looted shops in the township of Alexandra, prompting police to fire rubber bullets to disperse them. Five deaths, most of them South Africans, have been reported, police said, adding that 189 people had been arrested. In a video address broadcast on Twitter, Ramaphosa said attacks on businesses run by “foreign nationals are something totally unacceptable, something that we cannot allow to happen in South Africa. I want it to stop immediately,” said Ramaphosa, adding that the violence had “no justification.” Sporadic violence against foreign-owned stores and enterprises has a long history in South Africa, where many locals blame immigrants for high unemployment. The country is a major destination for economic migrants from neighbouring Lesotho, Mozambique and Zimbabwe. Others come from much farther away, including South Asia and Nigeria, Africa’s most populous country. The violence and looting of shops occurred in Johannesburg and surrounding areas. Similar incidents occurred in the capital Pretoria on Monday, when local media reported shacks and shops burning in the Marabastad, a central business area largely populated by economic migrants. Nigeria summoned its South African ambassador to express “displeasure over the treatment of her citizens” and said it would dispatch a special envoy. Several Nigerians used social media to call for a boycott of South African companies, including telecoms provider MTN, satellite television service DSTV and retailer Shoprite. Separately, African Union chairperson Moussa Faki condemned the violence “in the strongest terms” but said he was encouraged “by arrests already made by the South African authorities”. --TheIndependent--