Latex gloves serve as urine bags, operating rooms lack light bulbs and patients are often required to refuel their own ambulances, medics say. Mugabe, who died last week in Singapore at age 95, may have swept to power as a liberation hero, but his rule was marked by economic collapse that left his people scrambling to survive. Zimbabwean doctors note the symbolism of Mugabe seeking treatment 8 000km from home in Singapore's gleaming Gleneagles clinic, where the cheapest suite costs around $850 a day. "It is very symbolic that the former president who presided over all the system for three decades can't trust the health system," said Edgar Munatsi, a doctor at Chitungwiza, 30km from the capital Harare. "It says a lot about the current state of our health system." Mugabe's death has left many debating the legacy of a man who ended white minority rule and was initially lauded for advances in public health and education. In his nearly four-decade rule, Mugabe later brutally repressed opponents and oversaw a catastrophic mismanagement of economy that led to hyper-inflation, food shortages and misery. Mugabe was not alone in seeking overseas care. Current Vice President Constantino Chiwenga is away for several weeks of treatment in China. It is not hard to see why. In Chitungwiza hospital, a glowing sign promising "Quality Health" welcomes patients, but conditions inside say otherwise: Operations are often cancelled for lack of anaesthetic, Munatsi says. The hospital recently issued an internal memo warning its poorly-paid staff against "eating food made for patients". The situation is equally dramatic in paediatrics at Harare Central Hospital, one of Zimbabwe's top clinics. Cleaning is done only twice a week, for lack of staff and detergents, doctors told AFP. The operations are often postponed for lack of running water and nursing staff, in a country mired for two decades in economic crisis. "In theatre, we have linen full of blood and faeces and you can't do the laundry," said one doctor. Since the early 1990s, the public health system has steadily deteriorated, whereas before, people came from overseas to be treated in Zimbabwe, recalls one senior doctor. That is a legacy of the Mugabe years as the country was tipped into endless economic crisis - three-digit inflation, currency devaluations, and shortages of commodities. In hospitals, patients and loved ones who experience the situation daily, are resigned. --News24--