This is set out in the latest documents seen by The Namibian, showing that Public Enterprises Minister, Leon Jooste, spearheaded negotiations between Air Namibia and Lufthansa, which appears to have a head-start over the other interested airlines. His role, however, attracted strong criticism from some government officials, who accused the politician of sidelining key state agencies in the talks. Jooste wrote to Air Namibia's Board Chairperson, Dee-Sauls Deckenbrock, on August 28, 2019, informing her that the Cabinet committee on treasury (CCT) had allowed him to engage several airlines to gauge their interest in entering a strategic equity partnership with Air Namibia. "Three airlines, namely South African Airways, Ethiopian Airways and Lufthansa indicated an interest to pursue further discussions," the minister said. Jooste added that the transport and finance ministers agreed that Air Namibia can engage these airlines "as a matter of urgency to ascertain their appetite for a potential strategic partnership with Air Namibia". He also asked Air Namibia to consider appointing an expert to assist the national airline in these complex negotiations due to a lack of capacity in the company. "The services of the same expert may be required to assist in negotiations to terminate the A330 lease agreements at an opportune time and appropriate manner after a final decision is taken on this matter," he said. Jooste urged Deckenbrock to fast-track the process, and see if there was a need for any tender exemptions. LUFTHANSA Documents seen by The Namibian show that Jooste wrote to Lufthansa on July 15, 2019, in a letter titled 'Potential strategic partnership with Air Namibia'. It is unclear if he also wrote to other airlines. In the letter, he briefly profiled Air Namibia, and explained to Lufthansa Chairperson and Chief Executive, Carsten Spohr, the positive impact Air Namibia had on the growth of tourism in Namibia. Jooste told The Namibian yesterday that his involvement in the Air Namibia process is guided by Cabinet, adding that it was necessary for him to talk to other airlines instead of the board. The minister added that he was tasked to write to several airlines to gauge the appetite for a potential strategic partnership with Air Namibia. --AllAfrica--