Djibouti, which lost to Kenya in the election for the African Union representative for the UNSC seat, played up Nairobi’s current boundary dispute with Somalia as an indicator that the country could not be trusted to handle regional security matters. Kenya, however, flaunted its credentials as a pillar of peace in a troubled region, citing in particular its role in assisting millions of Somali and South Sudanese refugees, and ultimately helping the two to form their own governments. At least 90 heads of state and representatives of other countries attended the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA) last week, bringing 196 delegations to the annual, multilateral pilgrimage to New York. Kenyan diplomats distributed pennants and lapel badges labelled “African Union (AU) endorsed candidate” for the seat, whose election for the term 2021-2022 is due next year. Djibouti, on the other hand, dished out posters avoiding reference to the African Union, but still indicating its candidacy for the very seat. Egyptian President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi’s efforts to convene a meeting between President Uhuru Kenyatta and Djibouti’s Ismail Omar Guelleh on the margins of the UN General Assembly failed to produce a solution. Instead, President el-Sisi, also chairperson of the African Union, was told after the “dialogue” that Djibouti would remain in the race. On August 22, Egyptian Permanent Representative to the African Union, Osama Abdel Khalek, chaired a session in which the Permanent Representatives Committee voted for Kenya 37-13 in a secret ballot, meaning Nairobi had attained the required two-thirds majority to vie for the UNSC seat as the AU endorsed candidate. Both Nairobi and Djibouti are members of the Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD) and contributors to the African Union Mission in Somalia, but they are taking divergent routes to secure the prestigious seat. However, efforts to promote regional peace and stability appear to be the common theme in pitches by both countries. Ahead of the UNGA meeting, Nairobi’s diplomats said they would take part in the UN agenda, then seek to “take on detractors who wish to malign” Kenya’s endorsement from the AU. --TheEastAfrican--