Twenty-six candidates, including two women, are running in the election. Exit polls suggest an independent outsider, Kais Saied, has done well in the first round of votes. Turnout has been low at 45%, despite an earlier call for young Tunisians to get out and vote. The election was brought forward after the death in July of Beji Caid Essebsi, the first democratically elected President, who took office in 2014. It is widely viewed as a test of one of the world's youngest democracies, but there were reports that few of those travelling to polling booths were young. "Where are the young people? This is their country, their future," Adil Toumi, a man in his 60s who came to vote, told the AFP news agency. Official results are not expected until Tuesday. The outcome is difficult to predict but early exit polls suggest that Kais Saied, a 61-year-old law professor and independent, and Nabil Karoui, a media magnate currently in jail, could be well placed to make it to the second round. Essebsi won Tunisia's first free presidential elections in 2014 and was credited with largely maintaining stability in the country during his almost five-year rule. At 92, he was the oldest sitting president in the world at the time of his death. Essebsi had previously confirmed that he was not planning to run for re-election. His wife, Chadlia Saida Farhat, died on Sunday morning, aged 83, their son announced on Facebook as voting was getting under way. Parliament speaker Mohamed Ennaceur is currently acting as interim President. A candidate needs a majority of votes to win the election. If no-one gets a majority in the first round, the two candidates with most votes will face a second, decisive round. The winning candidate will be appointed to office for a five-year term. The constitution states that Tunisia's president has control over defence, foreign policy and national security. The Prime Minister, chosen by parliament, is responsible for other portfolios. Parliamentary elections are scheduled to take place in October. --BBC--