The inflation statistics released by the Namibian Statistics Agency last week, shows that the increase in the annual and monthly cost of vegetables pushed up the overall inflationary rate for the food category for August 2019 at 4.1% compared to 2.7% the same time last year.

Even though monthly inflation has been stable since January this year averaging at 0.3%, August recorded a slight increase to 3.7% from 3.6% recorded in July year on year. The slight year on year increase is attributed to the food and non-alcoholic beverages which recorded a 13% and fruits with 11% average increase in prices compared to 12 months ago.

Monthly, from July to August, the food and non-alcoholic beverage prices have gone up 0.5% representing the only large increase in all the goods and services that households spend on.

Few non-food categories that recorded a positive monthly change in prices were all below 0.3%, while most of the goods and services such as education, housing and utilities, clothing, communication, recreation and hotels either recorded no changes in prices or their prices fell.

The monthly cost of the basket in August slowed down to 0.1% from 0.2% recorded in July 2019 as monthly inflationary pressure continues its downward trend.

The monthly slowdown is attributed to main goods such as clothing which recorded no change in their prices between the two months. Services such as education recorded no change in the prices, while housing and water and power prices grew negatively by 0.3%, accommodation and catering recorded a negative change.

Notable monthly changes have been recorded in health services where the prices of medical products, appliances and equipment increased by 0.6% from July. The consumer basket contains over 350 items, grouped into 12 categories and 55 sub-categories, for which prices are collected on a monthly basis from more than 900 retail outlets.

Housing, water, electricity, gas and other fuels; food and non-alcoholic beverages and transport, cumulatively make up just under 60% of the total inflation basket. “Alcoholic beverages and tobacco” make up an additional 12.6% of the basket, meaning that the four largest categories represent well over 70% of the total basket.

Large increases in inflation in these categories have a greater impact on the overall inflation than increases in the lower weighted categories. --TheNamibian--