The report from the Commerce Department on Friday could further allay financial market concerns of a recession, which have been fuelled by a year-long trade war between the United States and China as well as slowing global growth. Still, the Federal Reserve is expected to cut interest rates again next Wednesday to blunt some of the hit from the trade war on the longest economic expansion in history. Fed Chair Jerome Powell said last week he was not forecasting or expecting a recession, but reiterated the U.S central bank would continue to act "as appropriate" to keep the expansion, now in its 11th year, on track. The Fed lowered borrowing costs in July for the first time since 2008. "The winds of recession aren't coming closer to shore if the consumer continues to buy their hearts out," said Chris Rupkey, chief economist at MUFG. "Fed officials are unlikely to cut rates too much deeper as they seek to get out in front of the risks the economy faces acting early instead of being too late." Retail sales rose 0.4% last month, lifted by spending on motor vehicles, building materials, healthcare and hobbies. Data for August was revised slightly up to show retail sales increasing 0.8% instead of 0.7% as previously reported. Economists polled by Reuters had forecast retail sales would gain 0.2% in August. Compared to August last year, retail sales advanced 4.1%. Retail sales have increased for six straight months, the longest such stretch since June 2017. Excluding automobiles, gasoline, building materials and foodservices, retail sales climbed 0.3% last month after increasing by a slightly downwardly revised 0.9% in July. These so-called core retail sales correspond most closely with the consumer spending component of gross domestic product. They were previously reported to have jumped 1.0 % in July. Consumer spending, which accounts for more than two-thirds of the economy, increased at a 4.7% annualized rate in the second quarter, the most in 4-1/2 years. Economists expect consumer spending will pull back to just below a 4.0% rate in the third quarter, which would be more than enough to keep the economy growing at a steady pace, rather than tipping into recession as signalled by financial markets. "A still strong pace for spending so far in the third quarter," said Jim O'Sullivan, chief U.S. economist at High Frequency Economics in White Plains, New York. "Including services, we estimate total real consumer spending for the third quarter to date is up at about a 3.7% annual rate from the second-quarter average that is positive for GDP."  --Reuters--