Noah Lyles, the fun-loving American speedster, has been hyped as an obvious candidate but he told Reuters on Thursday he’s not particularly interested in the job, although he could do it. For the International Association of Athletics Federations (IAAF) struggling to remain relevant in an increasingly competitive sporting landscape, the September 27 to October 6 championships will also serve as an audition for that role. Lyles, who is the heavy favourite to take gold in the 200 metres, ticks a lot of those star quality boxes. More than a sprinting machine, Lyles, an aspiring rap artist, runs to his own beat. The social media savvy 22-year-old has also strolled down the runway at a Paris fashion show, offered up designs for Boston Marathon T-shirts and painted his own special touch on a pair of shoes for his mother’s birthday. When Lyles glides into the room for an interview he comes armed with an engaging smile and plenty of bravado that stops short of cockiness. None of these things will help Lyles win the 200m on Tuesday but they attract interest, particularly from the casual fan. “I’m pretty cool, pretty chill,” Lyles said. “I’m excited to be finally at the end of a journey it’s time to lay some things down, win some medals.” Bolt won his first world championship medals, two silver; in 2007 in Osaka and his last a bronze in 2017 in London. In-between there were 11 golds mined from Berlin, Daegu, Moscow and Beijing, along with eight golds from three Olympics. For more than a decade the Jamaican was the face of track and field, the crossover star every sport needs to hold the interest of fickle consumers. “I don’t see myself as the next Usain Bolt,” Lyles said. “I don’t see myself filling a vacuum I’m just out here doing me. “You like it, cool, I’m all with it. Thanks for the support.  Don’t like it, I’m pretty sure there is a sprinter out there someone is going to gravitate to. I think I have the personality. I do enjoy it, I’m not afraid to have fun and be a showman on the track.” --Reuters--