The Democratic-controlled House is almost certain to vote to impeach the President as soon as next week, setting up a trial in the Republican-led Senate early next year, shortly before the presidential election kicks off with primaries in Iowa and New Hampshire. 

The effort to force Trump out of the White House faces long odds of success. At least 20 Senate Republicans would have to vote to remove him from office, and none so far have indicated they are considering such a move. 

The Senate may opt to forego a full trial and instead hold its vote after House Democrats and Trump’s defenders make their opening statements, Republican Senate Leader, Mitch McConnell, said at a news conference. That may go against the wishes of Trump, who wants to call his own witnesses. 

The impeachment charges accuse Trump of “betraying” the country by abusing power in an effort to pressure Ukraine to probe a political rival and then obstructing Congress’ investigation into the scandal. House Judiciary Committee Chairman, Jerrold Nadler, told reporters that Democrats had to take action because Trump had endangered the US Constitution, jeopardised national security and undermined the integrity of the 2020 election. “No one, not even the president, is above the law,” Nadler said at a news conference. 

His panel could take up the charges as soon as Wednesday ahead of the full House vote. White House Spokesperson, Stephanie Grisham, accused Democrats of engaging in a “baseless and partisan” attempt to undo his surprise victory in the 2016 election. “WITCH HUNT!” Trump wrote on Twitter. He is the fourth US President to face impeachment. Democratic President, Bill Clinton, was impeached in 1998 for lying about a sexual relationship he had with a White House intern, but he was acquitted in the Senate. 

Republican President, Richard Nixon, resigned in 1974 before he was impeached over his involvement in the Watergate scandal. 

Democratic President, Andrew Johnson, was impeached in 1868 but not convicted in the Senate. The abuse of power charge accuses Trump of using nearly $400 million in US security aid and a possible White House meeting with his Ukrainian counterpart to solicit Ukraine to publicly announce the investigations of Biden and a debunked theory that Ukraine, not Russia, interfered in the 2016 US election. 

The obstruction charge accuses the president of defying and impeding the House’s efforts to investigate the scandal, adding that Trump would remain a threat to the US Constitution if he remained in office. Republicans argue Trump did nothing improper in his call with Zelenskiy and say there is no direct evidence he withheld aid or a White House meeting in exchange for a favor. 

--Reuters--