The 79-year-old’s death comes at a time of mass protests across Africa’s largest country, with many Algerians demanding that the ruling elite relinquish power and the influential military step back from politics. Gaed Salah’s departure may not signify major changes to Algeria’s economic and political policies, however, with the country’s senior generals united over the handling of the protests. “The army hierarchy is unified and it will move on after Gaed Salah as it did before him. Algeria’s army is a single block, not under the influence of one general but with consensus as its engine,” said a retired general who asked not to be named. President, Abdelmadjid Tebboune, announced a three-day mourning period and said the Head of Land Forces, General Said Chengriha, would take over as Acting Chief of Staff of the Military. Gaed Salah’s death comes less than a week after Tebboune was inaugurated following an election that the army had pushed for as the only way to resolve the crisis over the mass protests. Demonstrators opposed the vote and official figures showed only 40% of the electorate cast ballots. The authorities have so far rejected any systematic attempt to crush the protests with violence, allowing them to continue each week but stepping up the police presence in recent months and detaining many demonstrators. “He kept his promise to save the blood of Algerians during a tough period,” Islam Benatia, a prominent figure in the protest movement, said on Facebook. The army’s central role in Algerian politics was underlined last week when Tebboune’s first act after being sworn in was to embrace Gaed Salah and present him with an order of merit. Weeks after mass protests erupted early this year, Gaed Salah’s televised speech urging president Bouteflika to quit swiftly led to the veteran leader’s resignation. The army then backed a series of arrests of Bouteflika allies and senior businessmen in an anti-corruption campaign that was widely seen as a purge of the military’s rivals within the ruling system. --Reuters--