The Botswana Democratic Party (BDP) won 38 out of 57 seats in the October 23 parliamentary elections, leaving runner-up Umbrella for Democratic Change (UDC) with just 15 seats and prompting opposition outcry. The UDC filed a legal challenge against the outcome of the polls last month, citing "irregularities in some of the constituencies". In an affidavit filed in court and seen by AFP on Wednesday, BDP member, Emmanuel Mohalodi, admitted that he and "other BDP trusted activists" allegedly carried out a "vote rigging operation" before and during the polls. "I confirm that the results ascribed to the BDP from the just ended general elections do not reflect the will or choice of the voter," Mohalodi said. He stated under oath that "BDP teams" ferried thousands of people between September 2018 and April 2019 to register in the capital, Gaborone, an opposition stronghold. Hundreds were also dispatched to other areas. The BDP won a majority in all of Gaborone's five constituencies, which were previously held by the opposition. "Voters would first vote at their place of origin and be transport(ed) to the second constituency to vote (twice)," said Mohalodi. He added that Masisi, who secured his first elected five-year term as President after the BDP was declared winner, was "co-ordinating" the operation. Masisi has dismissed UDC claims of irregularities. "These elections were conducted on the basis of the Electoral Act," Masisi said during a press conference on Tuesday. "Where do they get that incredible ridiculousness of questioning the legitimacy of our electoral law?" he asked, outraged. 

BDP Spokesperson, Banks Kentse, refused to comment on the allegations of vote rigging. "This is a matter before the court," Kentse told AFP on Wednesday. "We want to allow the court to rule on the matter. As the BDP we believe we won a mandate in a free and fair election," he added. Mohalodi's affidavit was lodged as part of the UDC's petition on November 26, in which they are challenging the results of 16 constituencies won by the BDP. --News24--