A week of heavy rains across parts of South Africa caused flooding, aggravating problems at the cash-strapped power firm, which has struggled to keep the lights on since 2008. 

Ramaphosa, who cut short a trip to Egypt to deal with the crisis, met Eskom’s management and board on Wednesday. “Going right through March, they will be seeking to do everything they can to restore the stability of the network,” he told a briefing for journalists. 

He said suspected sabotage at power stations contributed 2000 megawatts (MW) of lost capacity during the past week’s outages and needed to be investigated. “There are certain people within the system who take it upon themselves to go and switch off certain instruments that finally lead to us losing so many megawatts,” he said without elaborating. 

The Public Enterprises and Energy Ministers would present proposals to cabinet on Friday aimed at closing South Africa’s energy gap, Ramaphosa said. They include fast-tracking applications of businesses seeking to generate their own electricity, he said, adding: “What they don’t use they will be able to put or sell into the grid.” 

Eskom said it planned to reduce national grid supplies by 2000 MW on Wednesday, down from 6000 MW on Monday. But the company said the risk of continued rolling blackouts remained high for the rest of the week. Struggling state-owned companies have been a major headache for Ramaphosa who came to power nearly two years ago vowing to reverse years of mismanagement and economic stagnation. 

He has promised “drastic” steps if necessary to ensure their survival. South African Airways was placed in bankruptcy protection last week and an independent administrator was appointed to run the state’s passenger rail company on Monday. 

Eskom, which generates more than 90% of the country’s power, is widely regarded as the most serious risk to an economy on the brink of recession. Moody’s has said Eskom’s troubles endanger South Africa’s only surviving investment-grade credit rating. 

--Reuters--