Silva has already survived one round of emergency talks among the club's hierarchy after the home loss to Norwich City on 23 November but it is increasingly unlikely he will be spared a second time after the humiliating 5-2 thrashing in the Merseyside derby at Anfield left Everton in the relegation zone. The 42-year-old Portuguese was asked about his future in the aftermath of Everton's eighth defeat in 11 games and said: "I am not the right person to talk about this situation. You are asking me and I don't have the answer." The answer may be delivered on Thursday, with Silva increasingly unlikely to be in charge for Saturday's game against Chelsea at Goodison Park. If he goes, and in the unlikely event Everton announce a long-term replacement, 56-year-old Scot Moyes is in the frame to return, after being discussed behind the scenes at Goodison Park as a temporary solution. The emergence of Moyes, who spent 11 years as Everton manager, as a potential successor to Silva, albeit temporarily, provoked an angry reaction from many Everton fans who regard his return as a retrograde step given his lack of success since leaving for Manchester United in 2013. He was sacked at United and Real Socieded and was in charge of Sunderland when they were relegated from the Premier League before having a short spell at West Ham. It has been suggested that if Moyes does return he could bring another Everton old boy Tim Cahill back as his assistant. Silva escaped the sack after the Norwich loss because Everton's hierarchy appreciated he has worked tirelessly and suffered injuries to key midfield players Andre Gomes, Jean-Philippe Gbamin and Fabian Delph. Everton director of football Marcel Brands has backed Silva to date and has argued for stability, but he was seen in deep discussion with fellow board member Sasha Ryazantsev, a close associate of owner Farhad Moshiri, as they stayed behind in the Anfield directors' box at half-time on Wednesday after a shambolic opening 45 minutes. There are expected to be further discussions on Thursday morning and it looks like this will result in Silva's time at Everton, which started in May 2018, ending in dismissal. It will be a blow to majority shareholder Moshiri, who was the main driver behind Silva's recruitment, even getting Everton involved in an acrimonious row with Watford as he tried to poach the Portuguese coach following Ronald Koeman's sacking in October 2017. If Silva is sacked, he would be the fourth man to suffer that fate since Moshiri bought a share in Everton in February 2016, following Roberto Martinez, Koeman and Sam Allardyce. --BBC--  