Saudi Deputy Public Prosecutor and Spokesperson, Shalaan al-Shalaan, reading out the verdict in the trial, said the court dismissed charges against the remaining three of the 11 people that had been on trial, finding them not guilty. Khashoggi was a United States (US) resident and critic of Saudi Crown Prince, Mohammed bin Salman, the kingdom’s de facto ruler. He was last seen at the Saudi consulate in Istanbul on Oct. 2, 2018, where he had gone to receive papers ahead of his wedding. His body was reportedly dismembered and removed from the building, and his remains have not been found. The killing caused a global uproar, tarnishing the Crown Prince’s image. The US’s Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) and some Western governments have said they believe Prince Mohammed ordered the killing, but Saudi officials say he had no role. 

Eleven Saudi suspects were put on trial over his death in secretive proceedings in Riyadh. In the investigation into the murder, 21 were arrested and 10 were called in for questioning without arrest, Shalaan said. Riyadh’s criminal court pronounced the death penalty on five individuals, whose names have not yet been released, “for committing and directly participating in the murder of the victim”. The three sentenced to prison, were given various sentences totalling 24 years “for their role in covering up this crime and violating the law”. Shalaan added that the investigations proved there was no “prior enmity” between those convicted and Khashoggi. The verdicts can still be appealed. In November, the Saudi Prosecutor said that, Saud al-Qahtani, a former high-profile Saudi Royal Adviser, had discussed Khashoggi's activities before he entered the Saudi consulate with the team which went on to kill him. The prosecutor said Qahtani acted in coordination with Deputy Intelligence Chief, Ahmed al-Asiri, who he said had ordered Khashoggi’s repatriation from Turkey and that the Lead Negotiator on the ground then decided to kill him. Both men were dismissed from their positions but while Asiri went on trial, Qahtani did not. On Monday Shalaan said Asiri has been released due to insufficient evidence, and Qahtani had been investigated but was not charged and had been released. --Reuters--