“We will be protecting the rights of Libya and Turkey in the Eastern Mediterranean,” he said on A Haber TV. “We are more than ready to give whatever support necessary to Libya.” Khalifa Haftar, who leads forces in eastern Libya, “is not a legitimate leader...and is representative of an illegal structure,” Erdogan said after meeting in Istanbul with Fayez al-Sarraj, Prime Minister of Libya’s Government of National Accord. Late last month, Ankara and Tripoli signed an expanded security and military accord and, separately, a memorandum on maritime boundaries that Greece said violates international law. While the maritime accord has been sent to the United Nations for approval, the military deal has been presented to Turkey’s parliament. “Parliament will enter it into force after approval,” Foreign Minister, Mevlut Cavusoglu, said on Sunday. It was unclear when a vote would take place in the parliament controlled by President Tayyip Erdogan’s ruling AK Party (AKP) and its nationalist MHP allies. On Thursday, Haftar urged his forces to advance toward the centre of Tripoli in what he said would be a “final battle,” after an offensive against the government that began in April but has stalled outside the capital. Egypt, which has condemned the maritime deal as “illegal”, urged other countries on Sunday to stop intervening in Libya to enable the country to restore its own security and stability, in an apparent rebuke to Turkey. “... we have the ability to (intervene in Libya) but we haven’t,” Egyptian President, Abdel Fattah al-Sisi, told a youth forum in the Red Sea resort of Sharm El-Sheikh. Sisi expressed his support for “national armies” in Libya, an apparent reference to Haftar’s Libyan National Army (LNA). Egypt is a regional rival of Turkey and one of the main backers of the LNA, which is battling forces aligned with the internationally recognized government in Tripoli. In the past, Egypt has carried out air strikes in Libya and has channelled material support to the LNA, according to United Nations experts. Greece, which expelled the Libyan ambassador over the maritime boundary pact, has also condemned the maritime accord and warned that Turkey is escalating tensions in the region. “Turkey must choose if it will follow the road of self-isolation, continuing to play the role of trouble-maker in the region, or behave like a good neighbor henceforth,” Greece’s Deputy Foreign Minister, Miltiadis Varvitsiotis, told Sunday’s Ethnos newspaper. --Reuters--