Assistant administrator Tonderai Mukubvu of Grant Thornton told The Herald Finance and Business in an interview that a comprehensive report would be submitted to the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure Development for consideration. AirZim was placed under administration in October last year in an effort to revive its fortunes. Initially, 10 international investors had expressed willingness to acquire a shareholding in the troubled national flag carrier, but only three eventually submitted bids. “The process of adjudication is complete now; we have made our recommendations based on the bids that we received and also the business models that we think can help turnaround the airline. By end of this week, we will submit our reports to the ministry,” said Mukubvu. He, however would not be drawn to disclose the three potential suitors citing confidentiality. The troubled airline, which owes foreign and domestic creditors millions of dollars, is among State-owned entities, which also include telecoms operators NetOne and TelOne; Chemplex and POSB, that the Government listed for privatisation. Air Zimbabwe is operating with a single plane, Boeing 737-200, mainly servicing Harare-Bulawayo and Victoria Falls routes, as well as Harare-Johannesburg and Harare-Dar es Salaam regional routes. It has two Airbus A320-200, two Boeing 767-200, two Boeing 737-200, British Aerospace 146-200 and an Embraer ERJ-145, which are grounded due to functional deficiencies. Air Zimbabwe has a staff complement of over 232 employees being the total number of active employees at its Harare base, local out stations and regional offices. It has maintained a large staff head-count despite a depleted fleet. Last month, Transport and Infrastructure Development Minister Joel Matiza, said a Malaysian firm had cleared the release of two aircraft acquired by Air Zimbabwe. Delivery of the planes is expected before year end. The two Boeing 777-200 ER are part of four planes the national airline intends to buy. Last year, Government, entered into an agreement to acquire aeroplanes from Malaysia for US$70 million. Air Zimbabwe is also finalising regulatory issues to start flying the Embraer ERJ145 purchased from the US. The plane was delivered in April this year. The 50-seater jet has to go through the local registration process as well as all mandatory checks, tests and certification before it is put into service, the Air Zimbabwe administrator said. The aircraft is expected to mostly service local and regional routes. --Herald--