According to the official All Blacks website, NZR Head of Professional Rugby, Chris Lendrum, said: “We’re pleased to announce that we have reached an agreement with Scarlets which will see Brad return to New Zealand in June at the conclusion of the club’s European competitions.” “We’d like to thank Scarlets for the positive, constructive and efficient approach they have taken around these discussions,” Lendrum added. “We recognise the difficult position it put the club in, but they, like us, also recognised that it was a fantastic opportunity for Brad, the chance to coach his country.” Foster said: “We’re delighted to have Brad confirmed to join us. I know the new coaching group is excited and keen to get into their work next season and we’ll look forward to welcoming Brad in following his commitments with Scarlets. On behalf of the All Blacks, I’d also like to thank Scarlets for their understanding around Brad’s release. It is very much appreciated.” The confirmation of Mooar completes Foster’s assistant coaching team. Mooar will look after the attack in the coaching set-up. As announced last week, John Plumtree will look after the forwards, Greg Feek is Scrum Coach and Scott McLeod will look after the defence. Mooar said: “To be joining the All Blacks coaching staff next year is an incredibly humbling and proud moment for my family and me. The opportunity to help coach your country comes around very rarely, so I would like to thank the Scarlets club for allowing me to join the All Blacks. “Similarly, I’d like to thank Ian Foster and NZR not only for this opportunity, but also to finish the season with the Scarlets. 

"The support I have had from both sides of the world has been amazing. The Scarlets players, staff, fans and Board have all been superb and it is hugely appreciated by my family. I will be giving it my all with this special group of people at the Scarlets this season to help us achieve our goals before we head back to New Zealand to join ‘Fozzie’ and the All Blacks.” Lendrum said while details of the agreement between NZR and Scarlets were confidential, it did include the payment of some compensation for the Scarlets. There is also an intention to continue to foster links between the two organisations in the future. --News24--