Mohammad Mahmood Abubakar said he did not see a long-term future for Nigeria's oil industry if governments follow through on their promise under the 2015 Paris Agreement to cut planet-warming emissions to net-zero by the second half of the century. "These days, anything to do with fossil fuel may have its days numbered, or years numbered," he told the Thomson Reuters Foundation at this month's United Nations (UN) climate talks in Madrid. Abubakar said Nigeria should use the royalties and export earnings it receives from oil, which account for about half of its revenues, to invest in alternative sources of energy, in order to "be ready" for a global transition to cleaner energy. "If the world is truly willing to quit fossil fuel, then if you are not ready and finally the world comes to terms with that and there are alternatives and no one is buying enough oil from you, at that point you are in trouble," he said. Africa's most populous nation has started to diversify into renewable power generated from solar, wind and waste and is moving its universities onto solar power systems, he added. It is also making efforts to end gas flaring from oil-industry operations on its soil by 2030, as part of its national climate action plan submitted to the UN. Burning off the gas is a waste of energy and a major source of planet-warming emissions, and Nigeria is procuring technology to capture the gas instead to produce power or heat water, said the minister, a biologist and environmental protection expert. The West African nation's climate action plan also pledges to improve its energy grid and expand the use of efficient gas power plants, in an effort to cut widespread use of polluting diesel generators. Nigeria has an overall target of cutting its emissions by 45% by 2030 from 2010-2014 levels, conditional on receiving international support to achieve that. Like many other emerging economies, it is seeking funding from wealthy governments to pursue low-carbon development and adapt to climate change impacts such as creeping desertification in the north and rising sea levels affecting its coastal areas. Abubakar said finance was "very critical" for Nigeria and called for processes to gain access to it, which many countries struggle with, to be "made easy". --Reuters--