Emerging from the meeting with Mnangagwa, Mbeki said South Africa was willing to assist Zimbabwe in resolving the challenges it was facing. He commended policies adopted by the Government so far. The former South African leader met with Mnangagwa for over two-hours at State House. He is also expected to pay his condolences to Grace Mugabe, the widow of Zimbabwe’s founding President, Robert Mugabe. Speaking to journalists after the meeting, Mbeki said Southern African Development Community (SADC) countries had an obligation to assist each other. “So the reason we spent this amount of time in the meeting as I have said, is because I haven’t seen the President in Harare as President of the Republic, so there was a lot of ground to cover. 

"But I am very glad indeed with what the President and the country are doing to respond to the challenges and I think it’s very important that the region comes behind the President and the country because the challenges of Zimbabwe are our challenges.” Mbeki said SADC should follow up on its resolution calling for the removal of sanctions on Zimbabwe. “Here for instance, the President was telling me about the decision taken by SADC on the sanctions matter. It’s an important decision and of course the region should then make a follow up with countries like the United States so that we act on this issue. So this is part of what we were reflecting about.” He said it was important for political parties to respect the will of the people in electoral processes, adding that any grievances should be dealt with through the legal route. In his brief remarks, President Mnangagwa said Zimbabwe and South Africa enjoyed cordial relations. “Yes, of course, you know Zimbabwe and South Africa are very close friends. Former President Kgalema Motlanthe came to see us, visit us. President Jacob Zuma did come, President Cyril Ramaphosa came. So it was only Mbeki who had not come. So the four have been here, what else would you want?” Mnangagwa said. Chamisa confirmed meeting Mbeki, but would not shed more light. --Herald--