Agnes Reeves-Taylor, 54, was charged in 2017 over a string of offences, some involving children, during the West African country's civil war. The university lecturer, from Dagenham in east London, denied wrongdoing and was due to stand trial in January. But after a technical appeal, Judge Justice Sweeney dismissed all charges. Reeves-Taylor was due to face a trial for torture and conspiracy to torture relating to events alleged to have taken place in 1990, during Liberia's bloody civil war. Up to 250 000 people are believed to have been killed during civil conflict between 1989 and 2003. Reeves-Taylor's ex-husband was Liberia's president from 1997 until 2003 and is currently serving a life sentence for war crimes in Sierra Leone. However, Justice Sweeney ruled that the case against Taylor's former wife could no longer continue. This was, he said, because of a lack of evidence that the Taylor regime had governmental control over the areas where Taylor's alleged crimes happened. The unusual ruling was not a finding that she was not guilty, only that the case could no longer continue to a verdict. This was a key test for conviction for torture in UK law, and it means Reeves-Taylor must be released from remand in prison. The eight allegations Reeves-Taylor faced concerned events in 1990 as the civil war raged across Liberia. She had denied she had been involved in any crimes. In his ruling, Justice Sweeney said: "I have asked myself in relation to each count whether there is sufficient evidence taken at its reasonable height upon which a jury could properly conclude that at the time and location of each offence, the NPFL, Charles Taylor's forces, was exercising governmental function in the relevant area. "In my view the answer in each instance is clearly in the negative." Reeves-Taylor smiled as she appeared in a video link from Bronzefield women's prison in Surrey to hear the ruling. War crimes investigators at the Metropolitan Police began to probe her in 2014 after receiving allegations from their counterparts in West Africa. The business lecturer was then arrested and charged in June 2017. Since then she has fought to have the case dropped - and her lawyers have previously told the court that she had no official position in Charles Taylor's regime. Reeves-Taylor has lived in the UK since 1998 but her future is now uncertain. While she is legally resident having claimed asylum, her application to settle permanently was refused under a Home Office rule that there were serious reasons to consider that she had, amongst other things, committed a crime against peace, a war crime, or a crime against humanity. Her appeal against that decision remains outstanding. Charlie Loudon from Redress, a charity campaigning for justice on war crimes, said: "This is a difficult result for those making the allegations, who will be denied the chance to have them tested at a trial. "In terms of the broader legal consequences, the Supreme Court has made clear that members of other armed groups that exercise sufficient governmental control, such as ISIS and the Taliban, can be prosecuted for torture under UK law. "And similar crimes that have occurred more recently than this case, anytime since 1991, if proven could also be prosecuted as war crimes. "The priority is that the UK continues to invest in prosecuting cases like this. For many victims across the world their only hope for justice is through a British court," Loudon said. The BBC has contacted Reeves-Taylor's representatives for comment. --BBC--