The crew of six deliver a single net of chambo, sardine and tiny usipa fish from the boat, just one of 72 vessels that land their catch every day on the beach at Senga Bay.  But overfishing and climate change have taken their toll. Hundreds of local traders gather each morning and afternoon at Senga only to find that fish populations are falling in Lake Malawi, Africa's third largest body of freshwater. "We were hoping to catch a half-boat full or maybe a quarter-boat but I'm afraid the fish are dwindling in numbers," port manager Alfred Banda said staring wearily at the small catch as it was dragged onto the sand. "Before, we used to catch a full boat but now we are struggling," he said, adding that a full boat would earn a team of between six and 12 fishermen about $300. Bordering three countries, Malawi, Tanzania and Mozambique, Lake Malawi stretches across more than 29 000 square kilometres (11 200 square miles) with over 1000 species of fish. The 14 000 people living at Senga Bay depend on the lake for food and for their livelihood. "Seven years ago there were lots more fish than today. In 2019 it is different, there's no fish in the water," trader Katrina Male, a 40-year-old mother of six, said as she stalked the nets of newly brought in fish seeking the best deal. "The fish nowadays are more expensive, because they are becoming scarce," Male said. "Some children have stopped going to school because their parents can't find the money." For both locals and climate experts, declining fish numbers reflect a combination of environmental change and overfishing that augurs ill for the future. The World Bank ranks Malawi among the top 10 at-risk countries in Africa to climate change, with cyclones and floods among the major threats. Senga community leader John White Said says increasing gale force winds and torrential rains have made it harder for fishermen on the lake. "Our men can't catch fish because of wind which is much stronger than before," he said, adding that the rains are increasingly unpredictable on the lake. "The rain before would not destroy houses and nature but now it comes with full power, destroying everything and that affects the water as well." According to USAID, the number of rainfalls incidents in the aid-dependant country is likely to decrease but each rainfall will be more intense, leading to droughts and floods. The threat was highlighted in March when Malawi was hit by torrential rains from Cyclone Idai, killing 59 people. The storm also cut a swathe through Mozambique and Zimbabwe, leaving nearly 1000 dead. --TheEastafrican--