He reportedly imported personal vehicles under the pretext that he was doing so for the State to evade paying excise duty. Tapfuma was last year reassigned as Principal Director Monitoring and Evaluation in the Office of the President and Cabinet. He becomes the second high-profile Government figure to be arrested by the newly-constituted Zimbabwe Anti-Corruption Commission (ZACC) after Tourism, Environment and Hospitality Industry Minister Prisca Mupfumira was arrested last Thursday. ACC commissioner in charge of investigations, Frank Muchengwa, confirmed the arrest, saying Tapfuma will appear in court today. “I can confirm that Douglas Tapfuma has been arrested and he is spending a night at Mabelreign Police Station. “He is accused of unlawfully importing a number of vehicles using the name of the State. “He made people to believe that he was importing the vehicles on behalf of the State, when the cars were his. He then brought in the vehicles without paying duty,” said Comm Muchengwa. A report by a private daily newspaper last year indicated that Tapfuma was abusing President Mnangagwa’s name and using letters from the President’s Office to facilitate the importation of vehicles for friends and relatives duty-free. The same letters were also allegedly being used to evade paying Zimbabwe National Road Administration (ZINARA) tollgate fees. Additionally, Tapfuma was fingered in some alleged corrupt deals, including the “disappearance” of $6.4 million at Hwange Colliery. ZACC, which recently got arresting powers, is walking the talk on the arrest of bigwigs, with Minister Mupfumira being the first big catch. President Mnangagwa on July 15 overhauled ZACC, appointing Justice Loice Matanda-Moyo as chairperson. Eight other commissioners, who succeeded in public interviews held recently, were sworn-in to work with Justice Matanda-Moyo. The new commission, unlike the previous one, has powers to arrest suspects. Justice Matanda-Moyo recently vowed to fight corruption, indicating that a number of bigwigs were already under investigation. --Herald--