Sudan's military ruler condemned the killing of the schoolchildren in the central town of Al-Obeid on Monday as the United Nations (UN) called for an investigation into what protesters said was a "massacre". Demonstrators accused feared paramilitaries of the Rapid Support Forces of shooting dead the teenagers at a rally against shortages of bread and fuel. The killings came as protest leaders were to hold talks with generals on Tuesday on the remaining aspects of installing civilian rule after the two sides inked a power-sharing deal earlier this month. But two protest leaders who are members of the protest movement's negotiating team said the dialogue would not take place as planned. "There will be no negotiations today as we are still in Al-Obeid," Taha Osman, a negotiator from the protest movement told AFP by telephone from the town. "There will be no negotiation today with the Transitional Military Council as our negotiating team is still in Al-Obeid and will return only tonight," another negotiator Satea al-Haj said. The chairperson of Sudan's ruling military council, General Abdel Fattah al-Burhan, condemned the killings. "What happened in Al-Obeid is sad. Killing peaceful civilians is an unacceptable crime that needs immediate accountability," he told journalists, according to state television. The UN children's agency UNICEF called on the authorities "to investigate" the killings and hold the perpetrators accountable. "No child should be buried in their school uniform," UNICEF said in a statement, adding that the pupils killed were between 15 and 17 years old. Authorities announced a night-time curfew in four towns in North Kordofan state following the deaths in Al-Obeid, as the main protest group, the Sudanese Professionals Association, called for nationwide rallies against the "massacre". 

All schools in the state have been told to suspend classes. "The Janjaweed forces and some snipers, without any mercy, confronted school students with live ammunition," the SPA said, referring to the RSF which has its origins in Arab militias that were originally deployed to suppress an ethnic minority rebellion that erupted in Sudan's western region of Darfur in 2003. The SPA said more than 60 people have been wounded. --AFP--