More than 130 people were injured in the strike, blamed on forces led by warlord General Khalifa. His troops accuse the government of the attack. Most of the dead are believed to be sub-Saharan Africans, attempting to reach Europe from Libya by sea. Thousands of migrants are held in government-run detention centres. The country has been torn by violence and division since long-time ruler, Muammar Gaddafi, was deposed and killed in 2011. The head of the United Nations Mission in Libya, Ghassan Salama, expressed his shock at the attack inside a hangar at the Tajoura Detention Centre. Tajoura houses some 600 migrants. Women and children were among those hit, Guma El-Gamaty, a member of the UN-backed political dialogue group, told BBC World Service. The UN-backed Government of National Accord (GNA), led by Prime Minister Fayez al-Sarraj, accused the self-styled Libyan National Army (LNA) of carrying out an air strike on the centre. The "heinous crime" was "premeditated" and "precise", it said. The LNA, led by Gen Haftar, was fighting government forces in the area where the strike happened. It had announced on Monday that it would start heavy air strikes on targets in Tripoli after "traditional means" of war had been exhausted. The LNA said its warplanes had bombed a pro-government camp near the centre and pro-government forces had fired shells in response, hitting the migrant centre by accident. A spokesperson for the UN refugee agency, Charlie Yaxley, said it could not confirm who was behind the attack on the centre.. No authority has full control over Libya and the country is extremely unstable, torn between several political and military factions, the two most important of which are led by Prime Minister Sarraj and General Haftar. Haftar started an offensive against the government in April. The general has been active in Libyan politics for more than four decades and was one of Gadaffi's close allies until a dispute in the late 1980s forced him to live in exile in the United States. --BBC--