According to Treasury, speculative borrowing from banks was fomenting illegal forex dealings on the parallel market, which had dire consequences on prices. To tame widespread market indiscipline, Government removed the multi-currency through Statutory Instrument 142 of 2019. This was to avert forced re-dollarisation when Zimbabwe is facing a US dollar crunch, which saw the central bank swiftly move in to back up with a series of monetary interventions. Some of the measures by the central bank included increased foreign currency allocations to the interbank to reduce pressure on demand for forex, relaxed forex trading terms for banks and bureaux de change and tightening rules for operation of corporates’ nostro foreign currency accounts. While the intervention through monetary instruments will target the twin evils of parallel market currency speculation and negative impact of low interest rates on inflation, Treasury indicated it was acutely aware of the potential costly implications of high interest rates on the economy. The Reserve Bank hiked the overnight bank or accommodation rate from 15 to 50 % per annum after the Government, through the Ministry of Finance, gazetted Statutory Instrument 142 of 2019, which brought an abrupt end to the multi-currency adopted and in use since February 2009. The overnight rate is the interest rate the central bank sets to target monetary policy objectives and determines banking industry lending rates. In most circumstances, the rate is the lowest available interest rate, and as such, it is only available to the most creditworthy institutions. Finance and Economic Development Minister  Mthuli Ncube told the Parliamentary Committee on Budget and Finance on Monday that the high interest rate regime was introduced to curtail speculative borrowing and tame the tide of rising inflation, but would be in force for only a few months before being revised downward. Appearing before the committee together with secretary for finance George Guvamatanga and Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe governor John Mangudya, Minister Ncube said he was aware of a corporate that borrowed to take position in foreign currency bought on parallel market. --TheEastAfrican--