One theme, besides Brexit – dominated discussion among the movers and shakers from London's financial technology or FinTech industry as they gathered for their annual get-together: the future of virtual currencies. "Can I just ask you to raise your hand if you would not be willing to use Libra?" asked the moderator at an event at London's recent 'FinTech Week'. In the room, filled with about 100 experts and media who closely track the sector, about two-thirds of participants raised their hands to express distrust at the upstart currency. Helen Disney, founder and boss of Unblocked Events, which promotes the block chain technology that powers many cryptocurrencies, acknowledged growing doubts over who exactly would oversee and regulate Libra's operation. People are "concerned about how the governance... would work", Disney told AFP. "The cryptocurrency community is very libertarian in thinking. It’s about giving power to the people, democratisation of finance, keeping away from big banks and companies who control (the) economy," she said. Last week's gathering came one month after Facebook announced to the world its plans for the virtual currency. Libra, which is widely regarded as a challenger to dominant global player Bitcoin, is expected to launch in the first half of 2020. Whereas Bitcoin is decentralised, Libra will be co-managed by 100 partner firms, including Facebook's newly-minted financial services division Calibra. The companies behind Libra – which will be backed with a basket of real-world currencies – include payment giants Visa, MasterCard and PayPal, as well as taxi-hailing services Lyft and Uber. To access Libra on smartphones, users will go through a virtual wallet that will also be named Calibra. While Facebook boasts an enormous customer base dotted across the globe that should facilitate Libra's uptake, it firm also been plagued by privacy concerns that could make users hesitate. "Can't wait for a cryptocurrency with the ethics of Uber, the censorship resistance of Paypal, and the centralisation of Visa, all tied together under the proven privacy of Facebook," said Sarah Jamie Lewis, head of non-profit research organisation Open Privacy. --TheEastAfrican--