The pledge was made by SA’s International Relations and Cooperation Minister Lindiwe Sisulu to assist in the reconstruction of Cyclone Idai-affected areas. Zimbabwe National Army director public relations Lieutenant-Colonel Alphios Makotore said in a statement yesterday that the engineers, who arrived on Monday and are being assisted by ZNA engineers, will be in the country until the work is completed. “The South African National Defence Forces’ (SANDF) engineers will be working closely with their Zimbabwe National Army (ZNA) counterparts. The South Africans will be in the country until they finish the prioritised projects in Chipinge and Chimanimani districts, respectively,” he said. Cyclone Idai was declared a national disaster by President Mnangagwa as a way of mobilising resources for the rehabilitation of damaged infrastructure. The cyclone, which mainly ravaged Chimanimani and Chipinge districts, killed hundreds of people, displaced thousands others and destroyed infrastructure estimated to be worth close to a billion dollars. When The Herald visited Kopa yesterday, the SANDF and ZNA personnel were on the ground with their heavy equipment. SANDF have already set up camp alongside their ZNA counterparts, who have been stationed at Kopa since the disaster struck on March 15 this year. Kopa and Ngangu, both in Chimanimani, were the hardest hit. In an interview with The Herald, the ZNA operational coordinator for the project, Major Innocent Taguta, said the SANDF engineers would help construct belly bridges across Rusitu and Nyahode rivers. Belly bridges are largely metal structures. The two bridges are very strategic as they link communities to essential service centres. “The Zimbabwe National Army is working very closely with the South African Defence Forces engineers here to construct two Belly Bridges on Rusitu and Nyahode. The bridges are very strategic as they link the community to schools and clinics,” he said. When Cyclone Idai hit Chimanimani it washed away bridges and disconnected children from schools and communities from hospitals and fruit plantations. Banana and avocado plantations are a source of livelihood for most villagers in Kopa. Chimanimani also provides 60 % of Zimbabwe’s timber. --Herald--