Despite slow patches in the second half, the reigning champions passed with flying colours, winning 74-25 in a lopsided contest. But they have an exam to sit on Thursday and coach Lisa Alexander would have undoubtedly preferred a sterner test from the world No 6. Earlier, Noeline Taurua’s Silver Ferns crushed Northern Ireland 77-28, leaving the Kiwis, like the Australians, unbeaten in five matches in as many days. Neither side has a true measure of where they’re at though, having recorded double-digit margins every game. The arch rivals – who have won or placed second at 11 of the 14 World Cups – now face-off in a mouth-watering battle on Thursday.
While the trans-Tasman rivals are both likely to advance to the semis regardless of the result, it’s a match fans have been waiting for since the Ferns’ spectacular fall from grace at last year’s Commonwealth Games, where they didn’t medal for the first time. Winning may set up a run for the title or a loss could galvanise a team, as happened at the 2015 Cup in Sydney. Then, the Kiwis beat Australia early in the tournament in what has gone down as the “poking the bear” match. That loss spurred the Diamonds all the way to the trophy. In Liverpool, the Malawi Queens were outrun and outclassed by a Diamonds outfit which had to generate its own momentum after quarter-time, when the game was all-but won with the scoreboard at 21-2. Australia’s starting line was captain Caitlin Bassett at shooter, who came into the match with 92% accuracy and Gretel Tippett at goal attack. Paige Hadley started at wing attack and Liz Watson took centre. With April Brandley missing after injuring her ear during the Barbados match, Jo Weston started at goal defence, with Courtney Bruce at keeper and Jamie-Lee Price at wing defence. Keeping Malawi to a tournament-equal low of just two goals, Australia made a sharp start in the first, with Bassett scoring 14/14 and Tippett 7/7. Hadley looked keen to impress and had eight feeds. Under suffocating defensive pressure, the Queens managed just three in the second, while the Australian shooters and a rampaging Watson continued to dominate. The quarter ended 41-5, with the Diamonds having caused 24 turnovers. Alexander made a raft of changes at half-time, leaving just Bruce, Watson and Price from the starting seven and it took a while to settle. Meanwhile, Malawi put on nine goals, most care of new shooter Sindi Simtowe. After a slow start, Caitlin Thwaites and Steph Wood picked up where Bassett and Tippett left off, scoring 14/14 and 6/6 respectively, with good service from Kelsey Browne. It was 61-14 at the last break. In the last, the Diamonds scored just 13 as the Queens managed 11; something to work on. After the New Zealand game, Australia will face England or South Africa in a semi-final later in the week. It’s game on.
… we have a small favour to ask. More people are reading and supporting The Guardian’s independent, investigative journalism than ever before. And unlike many news organisations, we have chosen an approach that allows us to keep our journalism accessible to all, regardless of where they live or what they can afford. But we need your ongoing support to keep working as we do. The Guardian will engage with the most critical issues of our time – from the escalating climate catastrophe to widespread inequality to the influence of big tech on our lives. At a time when factual information is a necessity, we believe that each of us, around the world, deserves access to accurate reporting with integrity at its heart. Our editorial independence means we set our own agenda and voice our own opinions. Guardian journalism is free from commercial and political bias and not influenced by billionaire owners or shareholders. This means we can give a voice to those less heard, explore where others turn away, and rigorously challenge those in power. We need your support to keep delivering quality journalism, to maintain our openness and to protect our precious independence. Every reader contribution, big or small, is so valuable.
--theguardian--