Ramaphosa, Health Minister Zweli Mkhize and other stakeholders in the health sector, on Thursday, signed the much anticipated Presidential Health Compact at the George Mukhari Hospital in Ga-Rankuwa, outside Pretoria, on Thursday. The signing of the Compact is a culmination of months of talks. President Ramaphosa says this is a big step for the country. "This compact illustrates what we can achieve when we plan and we work together to fix what is wrong in our country. It has assisted though, one country one health system. This means the quality of care must be the same regardless of whether you have money or you do not have money. With the signing of this Presidential health compact, we are closer to the fundamental transformation of our Health care system and we are working together towards achieving redress of our Health care system that is much needed," says Ramaphosa. Chairperson of the South African medical association, Dr Angelique Coetzee says the Compact will pave way for the roll-out of the universal health care. Coetzee emphasised that the health compact has been informed by an outcry from the medical practitioners in South Africa and civil society.  After they jointly expressed a sense of concern about the current situation in Health care, especially in the public sector. "Then it opens up the door for a proper universal coverage for all our members and our South African people and that is the way forward because currently the system in the private sector is going to get unaffordable as we move forward and we will monitor and make sure that it is happening this opens up the door for a new dawn for South Africa for Health care to make it happen," says Coetzee. --SABC-- The oncology facility brings advanced oncology care to cancer patients with a state-of the-art oncology diagnostics facility that allows for more accurate diagnosis, staging & monitoring of response to therapy. It’s also be used in Neurology, Cardiology & Infection/Inflammation. pic.twitter.com/RHnDUQXYiV