Following a good start with bat and ball, Proteas women came up short in the end due to faltering middle periods, a factor that head coach Hilton Moreeng and stand-in captain Suné Luus, agreed was the difference in their defeat in the third T20I against Pakistan in Pietermaritzburg on Sunday. On the back of a convincing eight-wicket triumph in the second T20I on Saturday, South Africa was denied back-to-back wins by a 45-ball 55 from Pakistan's Iram Javed that helped guide the touring side to victory by four wickets and give them a 2-1 lead in the five-match series. Having posted a competitive 138/3 in their allotted 20 overs and beginning well in defence of that total, Luus believes her side let themselves down during the intermediate periods of the innings. "Definitely not the result we were looking for," Luus said following the loss at the City Oval. "We started pretty well with the bat and we thought 139 on this wicket was a defendable score. Then, the way Shabnim (Ismail) and Moseline (Daniels) started, we had them three for three. We always thought it was going to be a close game. We had a good start but we kind of lost it in the middle overs, with one or two balls in the over not going according to our plans. That's something we need to work on." Moreeng echoed his captain's sentiment, as he also stated that the team endured the same lull during their innings with the bat and could have put more runs on the board. He also believes lessons can be taken from these matches and will serve the team well in the future. "Overall it is not what we'd ideally like, especially after the way we started with the bat," he commented. "We set it up and we always felt like we were 20 runs short after the start we had on this kind of wicket. The bowlers again set it up very well. The opening spell was great, we had three wickets in the first six, seven overs and should have set up the innings for us. "I must say, Pakistan batted well again, coming back into the game which led to another tight finish, something that we need to learn from. Even the bowler that bowled the last over, she's going to learn from the experience, what she can and not do in those kinds of overs," Moreeng added.
--News24--