More than half of UK firms are suffering cyber-attacks and most admit they are under-prepared for data breaches, according to a report by global insurers Hiscox. Redstor, a leading provider of next-generation data management, including cloud backup, disaster recovery, archiving, search and data migration services, says businesses in emerging markets like Africa need to be alert to the risks that global attacks could have on their operations. The progressive data company points to research which found that cyber-attacks are up 15% on last year to 55% and almost three quarters of firms were ranked as “novices” in terms of cyber readiness. A survey of more than 5400 small, medium and large businesses across seven countries revealed that average losses from breaches soared from $229 000 to $369 000, an increase of 61%. Despite this, the Hiscox report said the percentage of firms scoring top marks on cyber security had fallen, with UK organisations doing particularly badly. Gareth Wharton, head of Cyber at Hiscox, said the low UK spending could be driven by the large number of small businesses in Britain. “They may feel like they won’t be targeted, as we tend to only read about large breaches in the press. If they incorrectly feel that they won’t be targeted, they may be less likely to spend on cyber security.” Businesses are now 40% more likely to be the victim of an attack than a break-in. Security incidents and data breaches can bring companies to a complete stand-still, cripple their teams and ruin reputations. Redstor asserts that not having access to business data for even a few hours can cause irreparable damage in the form of lost business, catastrophic fines and reputational damage. “Today’s customers are less brand loyal so are more likely to jump ship to a competitor after a negative experience. The average cost of downtime, according to Gartner, is more than $5 600 per minute and the very future of an organisation can be defined by how quickly it responds,” says Shaun Searle, Country Manager - African Regions at Redstor. --IOL--