Pep Guardiola’s City and Juergen Klopp’s Liverpool achieved their results playing brands of entertaining, attacking and positive football that have set a new standard in the English and indeed European game. Manchester City’s 98 points and Liverpool’s 97, with third-placed Chelsea a further 25 points adrift, certainly illustrate just how relentlessly successful the top two were. Their combined 195 points were a top-flight record for the champions and runners-up indeed, they broke the old mark with two games to spare. The 62 wins they amassed together was also a record for a top two. And not even the intense pressure and nerves of a neck-and-neck title race could push them towards error. City won their last 14 matches, a streak stretching back to January, while Liverpool ended with nine straight wins, with their solitary defeat of the season coming at City over four months ago. But while there were some key wins, in the closing stages particularly, won by narrow margins, the pair combined for 184 goals, an average of 2.4 goals per game. Klopp and Guardiola have avoided barbs or mind-games throughout the season and have barely needed prompting to praise each other’s teams. The sense that both teams deserve huge plaudits for their football this season has also been clear from the views of expert observers, such as former Liverpool midfielder Graeme Souness. “City are a fantastic team. They play the game the right way, with strength and depth in their squad. Special teams retain the title,” said the Scot, now an analyst with Sky Sports. “This is a fabulous Liverpool team, and I can’t tell you in my lifetime where you have such an outstanding runner-up. I liken it to the World Cup in 1982, and Brazil. They were the best team never to win the World Cup. This Liverpool team is the best team not to win the Premier League.” What is fascinating is that those year-long debates over numerical formations - whether it be 4-4-2, five at the back, diamonds, Christmas trees and ‘false nines’, have been noticeably absent this season. The reason for that is that neither City nor Liverpool play with strictly formatted systems. --Reuters--