Steinhoff, which is also listed in Frankfurt, delayed the results after finding holes in its accounts, shocking investors who had backed its reinvention from small South African furniture outfit into a discount furniture retailer straddling four continents. The owner of Mattress Firm Inc in the United States, the Fantastic chains in Australia and Conforama in France said operating loss came in at 3.7 billion euros ($4.14 billion) in the year ended September 2017 compared with profit of 278 million euros in the restated 2016 figures. The company blamed write-downs for the loss as it cleans up its balance sheet. The total write-downs have already topped 13 billion euros since revealing the fraud that left it on the brink of collapse and wiped out more than $13.87 billion of shareholder equity. “The consequential impact of reversing the accounting irregularities is the fact that the restatements highlight that several of the group’s operating entities are unprofitable,” Steinhoff said in a 359-page annual report posted on its website shortly before midnight. An investigation by auditor PwC released in March found that eight people, including former Steinhoff executives, were involved in a complex scheme where potential intercompany transactions worth 6.5 billion euros were fraudulently recorded as external income to prop up profits and hide costs in money-losing subsidiaries. The retailer has delayed releasing results several times as it waited for the findings of the PwC investigation and audit process of its external auditor Deloitte. The 2018 results are now due on June 18. South Africa’s biggest corporate scandal has all but wiped out shareholders’ equity and led to several resignations, including chief executive Markus Jooste, who was instrumental in putting Steinhoff on investors’ radar screens. Shares in the company closed 1 % higher on Tuesday at 2.01 rand, valuing the company at around $554.02 million, a dramatic fall from grace in terms of market capitalisation, after it fetched more than 240 billion rand just 17 months ago. Shares in Frankfurt, where the company has a secondary listing, were up 3.5 % at 0.1314 euros shortly after the market open. --Reuters--