In the seven weeks since the disaster, the grief of family members has been joined by growing frustration over what they say is a lack of information from authorities and the failure to receive the remains of their loved ones. “We don’t know if they have our daughter’s body. We don’t know if they have pieces of her body,” Nadia Milleron, whose daughter Samya Stumo died in the crash, said in an interview. She says she’s spoken to mothers of other victims who also crave some “physical confirmation.” The Ethiopian government says human tissue has been gathered by a team led by Interpol and Blake Emergency Services, a Derbyshire, England-based Company that specialises in identifying victims of disasters that will test the material for DNA. The government has said it would provide temporary death certificates, which could help with insurance and probate. Precise identification will be difficult because of the nature of the March 10 crash. The doomed Boeing 737 Max reached speeds exceeding 500 miles per hour (805 kilometers per hour) before gouging a hole 10 meters deep in a farm field in Bishoftu, about 40 miles (64 kilometers) south of the Ethiopian capital, Addis Ababa. Villagers described a horrific landscape of shattered machinery and bodies. “After the site was secured, the Red Cross came in and took and collected the body parts. This took a long time to do because there was fire,” said Tamru Katama, a local militia member. “It was a terrible day - even now we don’t have the appetite to eat.” Milleron visited the site in the days afterward. “We saw all this debris, all this digging,” she said. Earth movers had been brought in and now the site shows tire marks and mounds of dirt. Robert A. Jensen, chairman of Kenyon International Emergency Services, a Houston-based disaster-management firm not involved in the Ethiopian crash, said the site clean-up appeared to happen so quickly that some materials may never be recovered. Processing such a site would normally take weeks or months. Crews need to dig until they reach dirt that wasn’t damaged, he said. Asrat Begashaw and Biniam Demssie, spokesperson for the state-owned Ethiopian Airlines, didn’t respond to messages seeking comment on the clean-up or comments of family members. The commissioner-general of Ethiopia’s federal police commission, Endashaw Tassew, and a Transport ministry spokesman also didn’t respond to calls and messages. Foreign ministry spokesperson Nebiat Getachew declined to comment. Some 15 federal and regional police officers were guarding the site earlier this week. The ground around the crater, smoothed over by bulldozers, has been fenced off with barbed wire and wooden posts bearing scraps of yellow police tape. The pace of visits from family members of the dead has slowed, the police said. --News24--