EEIP is an initiative of the Department of Trade and Industry (the dti) where multinational companies that are unable to sell equity in South Africa are invited to participate and contribute positively towards B-BBEE and development of South Africa. The announcement event, which was addressed by the Minister of Trade and Industry, Dr Rob Davies, through a video, as well as the President and Chief Executive of Samsung Africa, Sung Yoon, followed Samsung’s recent commitments to long term investment in South Africa. According to Minister Davies, the Samsung South Africa’s Equity Equivalent investment amounts to almost $19 million over 10 years. It joins nine other multinationals that have been approved for a value of $155 million collectively. The programme has to date resulted in the creation of over 3 000 direct and indirect jobs. The Samsung plan will create and address key developmental aspects linked to the National Development Plan (NDP) and overall transformation of our economy. These include the Black industrialisation through e-Waste recycling, beneficiation research and development in partnership with Mintek, which is a first for Africa, where a beneficiation plant is planned to be built and maintained by South Africans, and operated by a Black entrepreneur, enterprise development, and the development of township economies through Accredited Services Centres and software development. The Director of Business Innovation Group and Corporate Affairs at Samsung South Africa, Hlubi Shivanda added, "We believe our EEIP strategy will help alleviate the many challenges the nation faces. Our alignment with the National Development Plan (NDP) 2030 is part of our statement of intent. The fact is, Samsung is firmly committed to growing South Africa through socio-economic change and has dedicated the necessary resources and time to create a future, which was once merely a dream". The approved Samsung SA’s EEIP has an integrated approach, which means that Samsung will be an integral partner in the creation of the first and only black-owned and operated e-waste beneficiation plant in Africa that can separate Waste Electronic and Electrical Equipment (WEEE). The company has also opted for a strategic partnership-aligned model to achieve greater impact. In this regard Samsung has partnered with government departments such as DEA, DHE, DTPS and the IDC. --IOL--