The central bank which is charged with regulating Botswana's 13 banks says it conducted on-site examination of three commercial banks, with the focus on credit risk, governance and anti-money laundering/counter terrorism financing (AML/CFT). According to the report, the first bank failed some of the yardstick tests, reflecting unsatisfactory financial condition and performance, with the examiner noting that there were deficiencies relating to board and senior management oversight, absence of a board charter, no induction or training for new board members, lack of board self-assessment,  no succession plan, appointment of the managing director by the parent bank without involvement of the local board, and no leadership continuity as senior and middle management staff were rotated every three years. Bank of Botswana further uncovered weaknesses relating to governance at another undisclosed bank, which included inadequate composition of the board and some board sub-committees, lack of customisation of some policies and frameworks to suit the in-country business operation,  and failure to conduct performance evaluation for board members. “The bank’s strategic risk had increased as a result of the change in leadership at the inception of a new strategy. Inadequacies were also noted in segregation of duties in the risk-management function. The bank’s IT security was compromised as the IT policy did not specify the frequency of penetration tests,” noted the report. The third examined bank had a related-party representation of 40%, which violated the requirement of the Guidelines on the Appointment of New Directors and Senior Management Officials of Banks that prescribes a ratio of 33.3% at the most, the central bank said. Furthermore, asset quality had deteriorated as evidenced by an upward trend in non-performing loans (NPLs). Collateral management at the bank was considered inadequate, given that some residential properties held as security were not valued once every three years, some security documents for customer facilities were not in the bank’s custody, and some vehicle insurance covers had expired. The bank violated Section 20 (3) of the Banking Act by not reporting some large credit exposures to the Bank on a quarterly basis,” revealed part of the report. Consequently, Bank of Botswana took supervisory action against the bank for the violation, explaining that there were inconsistencies between information provided through statutory returns and that availed during the examination. --SundayStandard--