Lands, Agriculture, Water, Climate and Rural Resettlement Deputy Minister Douglas Karoro said the payment would assist farmers in preparing for the new farming season. “Yes, farmers will receive back pay and this will enable them to go back to the land. The adjustments will be paid to farmers who delivered their grains starting April 1,” he said. Government recently increased maize and traditional grains producer prices from $2 100 to $4 000 per tonne and some farmers who were waiting for their payments were concerned after receiving payments pegged at the old price. Maize farmers have also complained of delays in the payment of the grain at depots which they said were hampering their preparations for the 2019/2020 season. The farmers complained that the delays in payments affected them as inputs prices were always going up. GMB acting chief executive Lawrence Jasi said GMB was paying farmers as soon as it received money from Treasury. He also confirmed that some GMB depots were experiencing power challenges which were affecting payments while some delays were caused by farmers who gave inaccurate details. “Farmers are being paid as soon as GMB receives money from Treasury. The period can be anything from within a week after delivery. “GMB does online payments and delays are sometimes caused by the depots having no electricity which also affects our network. While we recognise that the problem of electricity is a national one, as GMB we have installed generators and in some cases solar-generated electricity in most of our depots. “Inaccurate submission of banking details by farmers or dormant accounts can also cause delays in some cases,” he said. He said in the case of a producer price increment, GMB got a directive from Government on back pay. “GMB gets guidance through the parent ministry on the payment of back pay. All farmers are entitled to back pay following such directives from the parent ministry,” he said. Some farmers have been complaining of GMB officials who solicit bribes to effect early payments for grain delivered. The GMB said it had put in place measures to ensure there was no corruption at its depots. “The payment process is computerised, and all payment stages are monitored via the ERP system and any delays in processing these have to be explained to the executive. “This monitoring report is generated daily, and as such, the depot manager has no room to delay farmer payments. --Herald--