With a handheld device linked to a server in the cloud, the agent scans the barcode, uploading data including the sealed bag's weight, when it was tagged, and by whom. It's the latest initiative in eastern Democratic Republic of Congo to improve systems meant to show minerals entering global supply chains come from mines that don't use child labour or fund warlords and corrupt soldiers. The new system developed by RCS Global, a company in Berlin that audits supply chains, started in January at Societe Minierede Bisunzu's (SMB) mine near Rubaya, which has some of Africa's largest deposits of coltan, a tantalum-rich ore. "It allows purchasers of SMB material to be sure that it actually comes from that mine site and is not smuggled into the supply chain from other mines, as much as possible," said Ferdinand Maubrey, a managing director at RCS. Whether the new digital approach to tracing metals such as tantalum and cobalt succeeds is of keen interest to companies, especially carmakers like Tesla, General Motors and Ford, as regulators on both sides of the Atlantic put pressure on end-users to prove their supply chains are clean. Now, companies mostly rely on a paper-based certification scheme. But United Nations experts have documented cases of tags used to identify clean minerals being stolen in another part of eastern Congo and sold to smugglers - allowing them to pass off ore from blacklisted mines as responsibly sourced. Maubrey said the new system had helped prevent tainted ore being mixed in with SMB's products by creating new obstacles.Car companies and electronics firms such as Apple, Samsung and IBM are all under pressure to show metals used in products such as laptops, video game consoles or electric vehicle batteries are sourced responsibly. In response to the role minerals from Congo and east African neighbours played in funding conflicts, the United States passed legislation in 2010 requiring United States (US)-listed companies to disclose whether their products contained any tantalum, tin, tungsten or gold from the region - and perform due diligence. A similar European Union rule will take effect in 2021 and the London Metal Exchange could ban suppliers of metals that are not responsibly sourced by 2025. The US Geological Survey estimates that Congo produced 39% of the world's tantalum last year. --Reuters--