But the 37-year-old Honduran made a pact with himself: not to leave the enclave of tents at the end of a bridge between Matamoros and Brownsville, Texas, not even to buy a bottle of water or to collect money transfers from his family back home. The cramped camp, in a partly fenced-in plaza abutting administrative buildings just feet from the Rio Grande, is home to approximately 1 000 migrants, many of them sent back to Mexico to await US immigration hearings under a policy called the Migrant Protection Protocols (MPP) that begun in 2019. After what is commonly known as an “express kidnapping” in September by men waiting in a van for him outside a convenience store where he was collecting a $100 transfer from relatives, Osorto promised himself he would only leave the camp to cross the bridge to Texas for his December court date with US immigration authorities. “I just wait here and trust someone else to get me 70 pesos ($3.50) or so when I need it,” he said. MPP, sometimes called Remain in Mexico, is among various overlapping US policies aimed at severely reducing asylum claims. President Donald Trump, whose hard-line stance on immigration was a mainstay of his 2016 campaign, has said lax US asylum laws encourage people to show up at the border with their children. Before MPP, it was common practice to release arriving families into the US to wait out their US court hearings, something Trump and others said allowed many migrants to disappear into the country to live illegally. Studies by legal aid groups, such as the Urban Justice Centre, have shown that most asylum seekers show up for their hearings, however. More than 51 000 people, mainly from Central America, have been sent to Mexico since the MPP program started in January, according to US Customs and Border Protection. But reports of kidnapping and extortion have increased since the programme was expanded to Matamoros and nearby Nuevo Laredo in crime-wracked Tamaulipas state. Human Rights First, a US-based rights group, in August, documented 110 publicly reported cases of rape, kidnapping, sexual exploitation and other violence against MPP returnees.
--Reuters--