SAA has floundered with an unprofitable route network and a fleet of ageing and inefficient airplanes. Tlali said it was too early to quantify the financial impact from the grounding of its planes, dismissing an allegation that the faults were linked to SAA’s perilous financial position. “None of the audit findings made at SAA Technical can reasonably be associated with the state of finances we are experiencing at the moment,” Tlali said. “No case has been made to support this claim because none exists.” The audit made two serious findings: that inadequately qualified personnel had signed off on maintenance work and that maintenance checks on flight data recorders and cockpit voice recorders had not been done correctly, Khoza said. Other findings included SAA Technical’s failure to implement previous findings and lapses in its quality management system. The SACAA has since accepted a “corrective action plan” from SAA Technical, which maintains aircraft for SAA, its subsidiary Mango Airlines and British Airways franchise partner Comair , which also operates under the kulula.com brand. The the head of South Africa’s aviation regulator said on Thursday that forty of the 46 airplanes grounded this week owing to faults found at the maintenance unit of state-owned South African Airways (SAA) have been returned to service. South African Civil Aviation Authority (SACAA) Chief Executive Poppy Khoza told a news conference the regulator had made five findings during an audit at SAA Technical, after which it issued a prohibition order stopping some aircraft from flying. Twenty-five SAA planes had been grounded this week, 14 Comair planes and seven Mango Airlines planes, Khoza said. That led to domestic flight cancellations and delays on Tuesday. Disruptions had eased by Wednesday. SAA spokesperson Tlali Tlali had told Reuters on Wednesday evening that more than 80% of SAA’s affected aircraft were back in service. SACAA chairperson Ernest Khosa said South Africans were safe in the skies after the intervention by the regulator. --AfricaNews--