Presenting the fund's recent world economic outlook for October 2019, Chief Economist, Gita Gopinath said global growth at 3% is the lowest level since 2008-09. “The global economy is in a synchronised slowdown, with growth for 2019 downgraded again to 3%, its slowest pace since the global financial crisis,” she stated.

The 3% global growth projection is down 0.2% from July's 3.2% estimate, while the 2020 projection was also lowered to 3.4%, down 0.1% from an earlier estimation.

Gopinath said this subdued growth is a consequence of several factors, being rising trade barriers; elevated uncertainty surrounding trade and geopolitics; idiosyncratic factors causing macroeconomic strain in several emerging market economies; and structural factors, such as low productivity growth and ageing demographics in advanced economies.

However, should a few impediments be eliminated, global growth in 2020 is projected to improve modestly to 3.4%. “Growth for advanced economies is projected to slow to 1.7% in 2019 and 2020, while emerging market and developing economies are projected to experience a growth pick up from 3.9% in 2019 to 4.6% in 2020,” she continued.

The economist revealed that a notable feature of the sluggish growth in 2019 is the sharp and geographically broad-based slowdown in manufacturing and global trade, mainly driven by higher tariffs and prolonged uncertainty surrounding trade policy. These have dented investment and demand for capital goods, which are heavily traded.

“In contrast to weak manufacturing and trade, the services sector across much of the globe continues to hold up, this has kept labour markets buoyant and wage growth healthy in advanced economies,” Gopinath said.

The IMF said with many central banks across the globe cutting their repo rates, it has helped offset negative shocks, including the USA–China trade tensions.

Monetary policy alone, however, cannot be the only game in town, and should be coupled with fiscal support where fiscal space is available, and where policy is not already too expansionary, Gopinath observed. “While monetary easing has supported growth, it is important to ensure that financial risks do not build up,” she cautioned.

With slowing inflation in most economies, the move to cut rates was fitting. “In our assessment, in the absence of such monetary stimulus, global growth would be lower by 0.5% in both 2019 and 2020. This stimulus has, therefore, helped offset the negative impact of the USA–China trade tensions, which is estimated to cumulatively reduce the level of global GDP in 2020 by 0.8%,” she said.

Forging ahead, Gopinath stated that countries should simultaneously undertake structural reforms to raise productivity, resilience, and equity.

“With a synchronised slowdown and uncertain recovery, the global outlook remains precarious. At 3% growth, there is no room for policy mistakes, and an urgent need for policymakers to co-operatively de-escalate trade and geopolitical tensions. Besides supporting growth, such actions can also help catalyse needed cooperative solutions to improve the global trading system,” she said.

Hence, the global trading system needs to be improved, not abandoned. “Countries need to work together because multi-lateralism remains the only solution to tackling major issues such as risks from climate change, cyber-security risks, tax avoidance and tax evasion, and the opportunities and challenges of emerging financial technologies,” she continued.

--TheNamibian--